WAYNESBORO, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Lumos Networks Corp. (“Lumos Networks”) (LMOS), a leading fiber-based service provider in the mid-Atlantic region, today launched Frederick, Maryland as its 25th Enterprise market. Frederick is located 50 miles northwest of downtown Washington D.C. and is the 2nd largest incorporated city in the state of Maryland behind Baltimore. The city is part of the Washington D.C. MSA grouping, which is the 7th largest in the country.
Timothy G Biltz, President and CEO of Lumos Networks said, “We are pleased to announce the creation of Frederick, Maryland as our newest Enterprise market. Lumos currently has several key Enterprise customers in Frederick, representing multiple industry verticals, including healthcare and education. We expect continued solid Enterprise demand in this market as we head into 2017.”
“Previously, the Company included Frederick, Maryland in our Martinsburg-Hagerstown, Md. market,” explained Joseph E McCourt, Chief Revenue Officer for Lumos Networks. “However, after an updated analysis of our addressable Market across our footprint completed in June 2016 and given our sales pipeline in the Frederick metro area, we decided to separate Frederick into its own market in order to maximize our growth potential.”
“We believe that the Frederick market fits well into our ‘Large Locals' strategy of pursuing Enterprise accounts in our seven key verticals where the preponderance of their locations are within our approximately 9,200 mile fiber footprint,” McCourt continued. “Given our expectations for growth in this market, we recently hired Scott Austin as our regional sales manager and one of his focus areas is Frederick, Maryland.”
Scott Austin contact information: (m) 717-495-7414; austins@lumosnet.com
About Lumos Networks
Lumos Networks is a leading fiber-based service provider in the Mid-Atlantic region serving Carrier, Enterprise and Data Center customers, offering end-to-end connectivity in 24 markets in Virginia, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, Ohio and Kentucky. With a fiber network of 9,204 fiber route miles and 475,507 total fiber strand miles, Lumos Networks connects 1,297 unique Fiber to the Cell sites, 1,642 total FTTC connections, 36 data centers, including 7 company owned co-location facilities, 1,984 on-net buildings and approximately 3,300 total on-net locations. In 2015, Lumos Networks generated over $114 million in Data revenue over our fiber network. Detailed information about Lumos Networks is available at www.lumosnetworks.com.
SPECIAL NOTE FROM THE COMPANY REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements contained in this presentation that are not statements of historical fact, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements and should be evaluated as such. The words “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “targets,” “projects,” “should,” “may,” “will” and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, our current expectations, plans and strategies, and anticipated financial results, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control or predict. Because of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Furthermore, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update or review any forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Important factors with respect to any such forward-looking statements, including certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to: our ability to complete the Clarity acquisition on a timely basis and the impact of the acquisition on our operations; rapid development and intense competition with resulting pricing pressure in the telecommunications and high speed data transport industry; our ability to grow our data business on an organic or inorganic basis in order to offset expected revenue declines in legacy voice and access products; our ability to obtain new carrier contracts or expand services under existing carrier contracts at competitive pricing levels to offset churn and achieve revenue growth from our carrier businesses; our ability to separate our legacy business on a timely basis; our ability to effectively allocate capital and timely implement network expansion plans necessary to accommodate organic growth initiatives; our ability to complete customer installations in a timely manner; adverse economic conditions; operating and financial restrictions imposed by our senior credit facility and our unsecured debt obligations; our cash and capital requirements; our ability to maintain and enhance our network; the potential to experience a high rate of customer turnover; federal and state regulatory fees, requirements and developments; our reliance on certain suppliers and vendors; and other unforeseen difficulties that may occur. These risks and uncertainties are not intended to represent a complete list of all risks and uncertainties inherent in our business, and should be read in conjunction with the more detailed cautionary statements and risk factors included in our SEC filings, including our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005138/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}