TORONTO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Following the voluntary administration process of Wynyard Group Limited of Auckland, New Zealand, Resolver finalizes the acquisition of Wynyard’s Risk Management suite of products. Resolver has greatly expanded its customer base and global reach with the acquisition of the Wynyard Risk Management (WRM), Kairos Risk Management and Methodware Enterprise Risk Assessor (ERA) applications. Over 150 customers using the WRM products will be provided continual support and long-term product roadmap through Resolver.
Resolver has re-engaged a significant portion of the original WRM team including Bob Adderley, Scott James, Clint Walker and Adam Belfield to provide uninterrupted support of these platforms. “It is our privilege to provide a long-term home for the Wynyard WRM customers and employees,” states Will Anderson, CEO of Resolver Inc.
Continued Product Support and EnhancementResolver will continue to offer customers on the WRM, Kairos, and ERA applications with continual product support including existing product enhancement with the WRM product. Resolver is committed to building industry leading applications with best-in-class capabilities for risk assessment, risk management, audit, and compliance, incident management, security operations center management, and investigations. “We are committed to the continued development of WRM to support the needs of existing customers. At the same time, we have been releasing our next generation technology to provide long-term direction for all Resolver customers,” states Anderson.
Strategic DirectionBy acquiring the WRM platform and its predecessors, Resolver will increase its global footprint around the world. The acquisition also adds more than 150 customers to the Resolver family representing many marquee brands, and extends Resolver’s physical presence in the United Kingdom, as well in the Oceania region through a New Zealand office. The acquisition will also mean an extension of Resolver’s application hosting presence with servers in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand. With the new employees added, Resolver increases its already impressive domain knowledge of the Risk Management space.
Acquisition FinancingResolver has funded the acquisition through its existing cash and credit facilities.
About ResolverResolver protects what matters™. Our Integrated Risk Management platform supports the response and recovery process when an unplanned event does occur; including Incident Reporting, Incident Response and Investigations. We also help plan and prepare your organization to limit the likeliness or impact of events from occurring; this includes Risk Assessment, Enterprise Risk Management, Internal Control, Internal Audit and Compliance. Resolver’s team is comprised of security, risk and compliance experts supporting over 1,000 customers across 100 countries with offices in North America, United Kingdom, New Zealand, and the Middle East.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006304/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}