AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Kasasa®, formerly BancVue, was named a 2016 winner of the BankNews Innovative Solution Awards (ISA) for its refer-a-friend technology, Share KasasaTM.
The refer-a-friend programs have proven to be beneficial across many industries, but those available for community financial institutions fall short. Many are paper-based, manual, require back office reconciliation and do not deliver the experience consumers expect today. Share Kasasa changes all of that. It is a digital, automated, mobile-friendly refer-a-friend solution that integrates with all popular social networks, such as Facebook and Twitter. It is also gamer resistant, allowing financial institutions to have larger, engaging rewards, as Share Kasasa allows bonuses only for consumers who become real, active accountholders. It turns an institution’s current customers into brand advocates, allowing the institution to acquire quality accounts at a low cost.
“We are honored to be named an innovator by BankNews for one of our newest technologies, Share Kasasa,” said Gabe Krajicek, CEO of Kasasa. “Our mission is to help our clients better engage with their communities and strengthen relationships. Share Kasasa was carefully engineered to do just that, providing a unique, interactive and fun way to refer friends and family that helps increase the institution’s visibility. It is purposefully simple for consumers and easy to track for financial institutions. From the emails inviting current accountholders to participate in the program, to matching referrers and new accountholders, identifying eligible accounts, and payment of the incentive, Share Kasasa does it all automatically.”
Each community financial institution receives a co-branded microsite for accountholders and their friends and family to interact with Share Kasasa, increasing engagement and adding another benefit to the institutions’ Kasasa accounts. Share Kasasa allows financial institutions to tune their acquisition cost by offering incentives from $1 to $200. Better yet, by mining performance results from the entire Kasasa client network, Kasasa can prescribe the ideal referral incentive reward amount based on the institution’s objectives. Finally, since the platform only rewards new, engaged accountholders, every dollar is directly attributed to a brand new consumer.
“This year’s recipients represent companies that have introduced or significantly enhanced solutions designed to help community banks become more efficient, expand their capabilities and, ultimately, better serve their customers,” said Bill Poquette, editor-in-chief of BankNews magazine.
Winners are featured in the November issue of BankNews and were selected based on the number of votes cast by banking professionals. This year, the online ISA ballot received more than 9,500 visits. All votes were reviewed individually to ensure their eligibility and authenticity.
About Kasasa
Kasasa®, formerly BancVue®, is the innovative leader in branded, community-powered banking products proven to drive profit and growth for community financial institutions. With unprecedented access to training, compliance, research, support resources and customized consulting, Kasasa’s flagship suite provides a research-based strategy leveraging the power of a branded relationship platform. Kasasa is making community financial institutions the topic of conversation for happy consumers nationwide. For more information, please visit www.kasasa.com, or visit them on Twitter @Kasasa, @KasasaNews, Facebook, or LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005693/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}