For Daniel So, the reason for the sudden selloff in Macau casino shares isn’t all that important.
Valuations are what matter to the CMB International Securities Ltd. strategist, and those are telling him the selloff has further to go. After reaching the most expensive level versus Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index in seven years this week, a Bloomberg gauge of Macau casino shares still trades at a premium of more than 130 percent.
“Stock prices have risen by so much and over-reflected the recovery in the industry,” So said in an interview from Hong Kong on Friday. “It’s just a matter of time before the share prices have a significant correction.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Dear Mr. Trump, About Those U.S. IPhones
So spoke after the South China Morning Post reported China is imposing a cut on UnionPay ATM daily withdrawal limits in Macau, sending casino stocks tumbling. Shares pared losses after UnionPay International said its overseas withdrawal limits were unchanged, though it was unclear if that applied to Macau or whether the cap will be adjusted in future. An analyst at Union Gaming said the planned change will apply to individual transactions, rather than the daily cap.
SCMP’s report triggered investor concern that China’s spate of new capital controls in recent weeks will extend to Macau’s $30 billion gaming industry. The Macau government has had some restrictions on UnionPay debit cards since 2014, when it ordered jewelry shops and pawnshops on casino floors to remove the company’s card terminals amid suspicion they were being used to get money out of mainland China.
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
 Read more: Friday’s plunge in casino shares 
A spokesman for Macau’s monetary authority didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the SCMP report.
Friday’s rout in Hong Kong-listed casino shares followed an 84 percent gain in the BI Macau China Gaming Market Competitive Peers Index from this year’s low on Jan. 21. While gross gaming revenue in the former Portuguese colony rose for the fourth straight month in November, So says stock investors have been overestimating the strength of the industry’s rebound.
The BI Macau index is valued at 27 times estimated earnings for the next 12 months, versus 11 times for the Hang Seng index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Macau gauge’s 134 percent premium compares with a five-year average of 64 percent.
More from Bloomberg.com: Koch Industries Says House GOP’s Tax Plan ‘Could Be Devastating’
“The recovery will be quite weak,” So said. “It doesn’t justify the strong surge in stock prices.”
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Macau Casino Stocks May Drop Whether ATM Cap Is True or Not on bloomberg.com