REDWOOD CITY, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Talend, a global leader in cloud and big data integration software, today announced it has been positioned by Gartner, Inc. in the “Visionaries” quadrant of the 2016 “Magic Quadrant for Data Quality Tools” report. Talend is positioned the highest in the Visionaries category—on the cusp of the Leaders Quadrant—for its ability to execute, improving its placement up and to the right as compared to the 2015 report.
Recent Gartner research indicates “organizations believe poor data quality is costing them an average of $9.7 million per year, yet business leaders remain unconvinced that there is a clear and tangible reason to address data quality as a priority.”1 Data quality assurance is a discipline that focuses on ensuring data is fit for use in business processes. These processes range from those used in core operations to those required by analytics and for decision-making, regulatory compliance, and engagement and interaction with external entities. According to the Magic Quadrant report, “The data quality tools market continues to show strong revenue growth, driven by cost, process optimization and digital business initiatives. Applying data quality tools to existing and emerging business scenarios will enable data and analytics leaders to deliver greater business value.”2
“Our mission at Talend has always been focused on helping companies become data driven, and when it comes to turning big data into meaningful business decisions, you need to be able to trust that your information is accurate, cleansed, and complete,” said Ciaran Dynes, vice president of products, Talend. “We believe our position in the Magic Quadrant demonstrates that we’ve brought a new level of innovation to making data quality a core component of a broad set of business use cases across our open, agile and unified platform.”
The report says, “Increasingly we are seeing organizations seek to monetize their information assets, curate external with internal data using a trust-based governance model, and apply machine learning as they explore the value of the Internet of Things (IoT). Unless adequate focus is given to improving data quality, many of these business opportunities cannot be fully realized.”3
Talend Data Quality delivers trusted, cleansed and enriched data enterprise-wide, with easy on-boarding, standards, and rules that can be applied across all Talend’s data integration solutions. Earlier this year, Talend added governed, self-service Data Preparation capabilities to Talend Data Quality, which helps transform how IT and business collaborate to empower all employees to access and prepare data for analysis. In today’s increasingly competitive market, companies need the ability to act with insight to stay ahead.
Talend’s integration solutions are used by over 1,300 customers worldwide, including a number of FORTUNE 100 consumer products, healthcare, manufacturing, credit card and financial services companies. To learn more about Talend’s position in this year’s report and its innovations in data quality, read this blog.
Like this story? Share this: .@Talend highest ranking Visionary in @Gartner_inc Magic Quadrant for #DataQuality - http://bit.ly/1NFMQ5l
About the Magic Quadrant
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
About Talend
Talend (NASDAQ: TLND) is a next generation leader in cloud and big data integration software that helps companies become data driven by making data more accessible, improving its quality and quickly moving data where it’s needed for real-time decision making. By simplifying big data through these steps, Talend enables companies to act with insight based on accurate, real-time information about their business, customers, and industry. Talend’s innovative open-source solutions quickly and efficiently collect, prepare and combine data from a wide variety of sources allowing companies to optimize it for virtually any aspect of their business. Talend is headquartered in Redwood City, CA. For more information, please visit www.talend.com and follow us on Twitter: @Talend.
1 Gartner, Inc., “How a Chief Data Officer Should Drive a Data Quality Program,” Alan D. Duncan, Mei Selvage, Saul Judah, October 2016.
2 Gartner, Inc., “Gartner Magic Quadrant for Data Quality Tools,” Saul Judah, Mei Selvage, Ankush Jain, November 2016.
3 Gartner, Inc., “Gartner Magic Quadrant for Data Quality Tools,” Saul Judah, Mei Selvage, Ankush Jain, November 2016.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005463/en/