NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Corporate Risk Holdings, LLC, a global leader in diversified risk and information services and parent company of Kroll Ontrack, today announced the successful completion of the sale of Kroll Ontrack to LDiscovery LLC. The all-cash transaction is valued at approximately $410 million, subject to certain closing adjustments.
LDiscovery, a portfolio company of The Carlyle Group and Revolution Growth, is a leading provider of end-to-end eDiscovery solutions that support its clients’ litigation, regulatory compliance, and internal investigation needs.
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP served as legal advisor to Corporate Risk Holdings and Houlihan Lokey Capital, Inc. served as its lead financial advisor on the transaction. Evercore LLC serves as an advisor to Corporate Risk Holdings.
Latham & Watkins LLP served as legal advisor and RBC Capital Markets served as M&A advisor to LDiscovery, The Carlyle Group and Revolution Growth and RBC provided committed debt financing to LDiscovery in support of the transaction.
About Corporate Risk Holdings, LLC
Corporate Risk Holdings is a global leader in diversified risk and information services, headquartered in New York, NY. Corporate Risk Holdings is the parent company of: HireRight, a leading global provider of employment background screening and eligibility solutions; and Kroll, a leading global provider of a broad range of investigative and advisory solutions to help clients identify, remediate and monitor business risks.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements identify prospective information. Important factors could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those stated in the forward-looking statements. In some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “potential,” “should,” “will” and “would” or the negatives thereof, variations thereof or other similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they discuss our future priorities, goals, strategies, actions to improve business performance, market growth assumptions and expectations, future business opportunities, capital expenditures, financing needs, financial position and other information that is not historical information or state other “forward-looking” information. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times at, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information is based on information available at the time and/or management's good faith belief with respect to future events, and is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005442/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}