RALEIGH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Red Hat, Inc. (RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced the general availability of OpenShift Dedicated on Google Cloud Platform. The new offering brings Red Hat’s award-winning container platform as a managed service offering to enterprise customers who want to build, launch, and manage applications on OpenShift Dedicated with Google Cloud Platform as their underlying cloud infrastructure. With the availability of OpenShift Dedicated on Google Cloud Platform, users can speed adoption of containers, Kubernetes, and cloud-native application patterns, benefiting from Red Hat’s deep enterprise experience. Users also benefit from Google’s global, container-optimized infrastructure and can more easily augment their applications with Google’s ecosystem of data analytics, machine learning, compute, network, and storage services.
Red Hat introduced OpenShift Dedicated in December 2015 to help customers who wanted to accelerate their adoption of containers and cloud-native application patterns, but wanted to shift the bulk of their focus to application development and deployment rather than administrative and operational management tasks. With OpenShift Dedicated, Red Hat acts as the service provider, managing OpenShift Dedicated and offering industry-leading support, helping to shorten time to value and free up valuable time and resources for customers.
OpenShift Dedicated is built on the same code base as Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform (an enterprise-scale, customer-managed platform) enabling customers to easily move their workloads across public and private clouds. To help users operationalize containers, OpenShift Dedicated - along with the rest of the OpenShift portfolio - brings a more secure, enterprise-ready container platform based on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Red Hat’s trusted and proven enterprise Linux platform.
OpenShift Dedicated on Google Cloud Platform includes:
In addition to these capabilities, Red Hat also offers professional services to help customers migrate container workloads, adopt continuous delivery and DevOps processes, and build microservices-based apps with OpenShift Dedicated on Google Cloud Platform. And, via Red Hat Open Innovation Labs and Red Hat Consulting workshops, Red Hat can help customers build a blueprint for their digital transformation initiatives, alongside a specialized team of Red Hat technical consultants.
Upstream Kubernetes collaboration: Red Hat + Google
Red Hat is the second leading corporate contributor to the upstream Kubernetes open source project, collaborating with Google to help advance the container orchestration and cluster management project through community-powered innovation since its launch. The companies have been collaborating to significantly enhance scalability, multi-tenancy, and high availability of Kubernetes, which underpins OpenShift. OpenShift provides an enterprise-grade version of Kubernetes and docker container runtime that developers have come to expect, while giving users more control over the building and isolation process for their applications. Over the past four years, Red Hat has hosted nearly three million applications and four billion requests per day through its OpenShift public cloud platforms, OpenShift Dedicated and OpenShift Online.
Business value of OpenShift
A recent IDC study on the business value of OpenShift, commissioned by Red Hat, found that OpenShift enables customers to respond to market requirements faster by delivering business-critical, microservices-based applications with DevOps processes.1 These benefits include 66% faster application delivery times, $1.29 million in annual benefits per 100 application developers, and 531% average ROI over five years. With OpenShift Dedicated, enterprise customers can take advantage of these benefits with a cloud-based managed service, operated by Red Hat on Google Cloud Platform.
Availability
OpenShift Dedicated on Google Cloud Platform is now available for users with a valid Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscription.
Supporting QuotesAshesh Badani, vice president and general manager, OpenShift, Red Hat“With OpenShift Dedicated, OpenShift serves as the abstraction layer that works across multiple clouds. By expanding OpenShift Dedicated to now include Google Cloud Platform, our customers’ apps that run on OpenShift Dedicated can also take advantage of Google Cloud Services, furthering our vision for a truly portable platform across the multiple cloud and infrastructure platforms.”
Nan Boden, head of Technology Partners, Google Cloud"Customers consistently tell us that they are looking for open solutions that will enable them to use both public and private infrastructure; they want choice. Red Hat has been an essential partner in making Kubernetes available to enterprises looking for the support and flexibility to manage a hybrid cloud. We are deeply committed to working with partners like Red Hat to help our customers operate in a digital world.”
Additional Resources
Connect with Red Hat
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat is the world's leading provider of open source software solutions, using a community-powered approach to provide reliable and high-performing cloud, Linux, middleware, storage and virtualization technologies. Red Hat also offers award-winning support, training, and consulting services. As a connective hub in a global network of enterprises, partners, and open source communities, Red Hat helps create relevant, innovative technologies that liberate resources for growth and prepare customers for the future of IT. Learn more at http://www.redhat.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to the ability of the Company to compete effectively; the ability to deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technological innovations on a timely basis; delays or reductions in information technology spending; the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technologies and products; fluctuations in exchange rates; the effects of industry consolidation; uncertainty and adverse results in litigation and related settlements; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; the ability to meet financial and operational challenges encountered in our international operations; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic and political conditions, governmental and public policy changes and the impact of natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release.
Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Shadowman logo and OpenShift are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and other countries. Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other countries.
1 IDC White Paper, sponsored by Red Hat, “The Business Value of Red Hat OpenShift,” October 2016

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005285/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}