BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
SessionM, an industry leading mobile-first marketing automation and loyalty platform, announced today it has acquired LoyalTree, a provider of integrated point-of-sale (POS) marketing software for retail brands. The acquisition will make integration with point-of-sale systems easier and faster to deploy as well as cheaper to maintain. These combined capabilities also firmly position SessionM at the forefront of the fast-growing omnichannel marketing automation market. The acquisition follows SessionM’s $35M strategic funding investment in September 2016. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
The LoyalTree API is built upon robust data integration with leading point-of-sale systems like Oracle MICROS, NCR Aloha, POSitouch and others. By enabling two-way communication with POS systems in real time, LoyalTree allows marketers to create and deliver personalized offers that can be redeemed at point-of-sale. At the same time, the combined platform will inject purchase data and in-store connectivity into omnichannel marketing campaigns for greater personalization and predictability. Closed-loop analysis between marketing campaigns and in-store purchases can now be calculated using one end-to-end system for maximum speed and efficiency.
The new combined offering provides bidirectional campaign analysis to give marketers an accurate ROI of each consumer transaction as well as insight on what specific items each consumer purchased. This helps brands build more accurate and relevant customer profiles based on past purchasing behavior, giving them relevant data to make predictive offers in the future to drive long-term retention.
“We work with some of the biggest retailers and QSRs in the world. All of them want fast data that enables them to take fast action,” said SessionM co-founder and CEO Lars Albright. “With our platform, a marketer can decide who they want to target, communicate the offer across any channel and recognize the resulting purchase at point-of-sale in real time. Ultimately, marketers want to offer customers things they’re interested in buying. To do that, marketers need a firm grasp of what each individual customer has already bought. This integration makes our customer profiles smarter and more dynamic. That makes our messaging more relevant and timely. The ultimate benefit is greater loyalty and retention metrics for our clients. This acquisition pulls it all together seamlessly.”
New research from Forrester Research discusses the need for this joint solution. According to a November report, Vendor Landscape: Mobile Engagement Automation Solutions: “Customers expect relevance and immediate utility in their mobile moments … Today’s customers demand a seamless, integrated brand experience delivered to them with ultimate simplicity and relevance in real time … Moments impact the entire organization, so a messaging strategy cannot deliver if it’s based only on mobile behavior and doesn’t incorporate customer behavior from customer service or offline (e.g., in-store) touchpoints.”
“The rubber meets the road at POS,” said LoyalTree founder and CEO Brock Bergman. “Shedding light on the marketing ‘last mile’ between customer engagement and retail purchase accelerates the insights marketers can leverage in their work. SessionM has the most sophisticated omnichannel engagement platform we’ve ever seen. Tying that together with real-time POS data makes for smarter offers. Smarter offers increase share of wallet and that makes for happy clients. We’re thrilled to be part of the team.”
The integrated solution is in market now.
About SessionMSessionM is the next-generation engagement and loyalty platform. The company’s cloud-based solutions integrate loyalty marketing technology with marketing automation and profile management capabilities to drive personalized consumer relationships through the mobile device and across channels. The company is headquartered in Boston with offices around the globe. For more information on SessionM, visit www.sessionm.com.
About LoyalTreeFounded in 2011, LoyalTree is a Pittsburgh-based point-of-sale integration company with a focus on growing frequency and basket-size for retail companies. For more information, please visit www.loyaltree.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005213/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}