NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has taken the following rating actions on SLC Student Loan Trust 2007-2:
--Class A-2 affirmed at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
--Class A-3 downgraded to 'AAsf' from 'AAAsf'; removed from Rating Watch Negative and assigned Outlook Stable;
--Class B downgraded to 'BBBsf' from 'Asf'; removed from Rating Watch Negative and assigned Outlook Stable.
The downgrade of the A-3 notes reflects that the notes fail the maturity stresses at the 'AAAsf' level, with principal and interest shortfalls. The low stressed prepayment speed drives the tail-end risk and cash flow stress failure, resulting in insufficient funds to pay the A-3 notes in full under the 'AAAsf' maturity stresses.
The class B notes pass the 'BBBsf' credit stresses, but experience principal and interest shortfalls in the 'Asf' and higher credit stresses, leading to the decision to downgrade to the 'BBBsf' level.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
U.S. Sovereign Risk: The trust collateral is comprised of 100% Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) loans, with guaranties provided by eligible guarantors and reinsurance provided by the U.S. Department of Education (ED) for at least 97% of principal and accrued interest. The U.S. sovereign rating is currently 'AAA'/Outlook Stable.
Collateral Performance: Fitch assumes a base case default rate of 14.6% and a 43.9% default rate under the 'AAA' credit stress scenario, which is based on actual trust performance. The claim reject rate is assumed to be 0.50% in the base case and 3% in the 'AAA' case. Fitch applies the standard default timing curve in its credit stress cash flow analysis. The trailing-12-month (TTM) average constant default rate, utilized in the maturity stresses, is 1.7%. TTM levels of deferment, forbearance, income-based repayment (prior to adjustment) and constant prepayment rate (voluntary and involuntary) are 7.7%, 12.3%, 10.4%, and 8.3%, respectively, and are used as the starting point in cash flow modelling. Subsequent declines or increases are modelled as per criteria. The borrower benefit is assumed to be approximately 0.16%, based on information provided by the sponsor.
Basis and Interest Rate Risk: Fitch applies its standard basis and interest rate stresses to this transaction as per criteria.
Payment Structure: Credit enhancement (CE) is provided by overcollateralization (OC), excess spread and, for the class A notes, subordination. As of October 2016, total and senior effective parity ratios are 100.00% (0.00% CE) and 105.12% (4.87% CE). Liquidity support is provided by a reserve equal to its floor of $2,550,668. The transaction will continue to release cash as long as the specified parity level (not including the reserve after 40% pool factor) of 100% is maintained.
Maturity Risk: Fitch's SLABS cash flow model indicates that the A-3 notes are not paid in full on or prior to the legal final maturity dates under the 'AAA' rating scenarios.
Operational Capabilities: Day-to-day servicing is provided by Navient Solutions, Inc. (formerly known as Sallie Mae, Inc.). Fitch believes Navient to be an acceptable servicer of FFELP student loans.
Criteria Variation
Under the 'Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds', dated Sept. 1, 2016, Fitch looks to its own ratings in analyzing counterparty risk and assessing a counterparty's creditworthiness. The definition of permitted investments for this deal allows for the possibility of using investments not rated by Fitch, which represents a criteria variation. Since the only available funds to invest are those held in the Collection Account, and the funds can only be invested for a short duration given the payment frequency of the notes, Fitch does not believe such variation has a measurable impact upon the ratings assigned.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
'AAAsf' rated tranches of most FFELP securitizations will likely move in tandem with the U.S. sovereign rating, given the strong linkage to the U.S. sovereign by nature of the reinsurance and SAP provided by ED. Sovereign risks are not addressed in Fitch's sensitivity analysis.
Fitch conducted a CE sensitivity analysis by stressing both the related lifetime default rate and basis spread assumptions. In addition, Fitch conducted a maturity sensitivity analysis by running different assumptions for the IBR usage and prepayment rate. The results below should only be considered as one potential model implied outcome as the transaction is exposed to multiple risk factors that are all dynamic variables.
Credit Stress Rating Sensitivity
--Default increase 25%: class A 'AAsf'; class B 'BBBsf';
--Default increase 50%: class A 'AAsf'; class B 'BBBsf';
--Basis Spread increase 0.25%: class A 'AAsf'; class B 'BBBsf';
--Basis Spread increase 0.50%: class A 'AAsf'; class B 'BBBsf'.
Maturity Stress Rating Sensitivity
--CPR decrease 50%: class A 'Asf'; class B 'BBBsf';
--CPR increase 100%: class A 'AAsf'; class B 'BBBsf';
--IBR Usage increase 100%: class A 'AAsf'; class B 'BBBsf';
--IBR Usage decrease 50%: class A 'AAsf'; class B 'BBBsf'.
It is important to note that the stresses are intended to provide an indication of the rating sensitivity of the notes to unexpected deterioration in trust performance. Rating sensitivity should not be used as an indicator of future rating performance.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10
Form ABS Due Diligence-15E was not provided to, or reviewed by, Fitch in relation to this rating action.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Interest Rate Stresses in Structured Finance Transactions and Covered Bonds (pub. 26 Oct 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/888492
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
Rating U.S. Federal Family Education Loan Program Student Loan ABS Criteria (pub. 10 Nov 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/889777
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016255
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016255
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005718/en/