LUXEMBOURG--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
SES S.A. (Euronext Paris:SESG) (SESG.PA) announced today that MX1, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SES, will assist pay TV provider Sky in taking its first steps into free-to-air TV in Germany and Austria, by introducing Sky Sport News to audiences in these two markets.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006533/en/ 
On 1 December, the 24-hour high definition (HD) sport news channel “Sky Sport News HD” will be free-to-air via satellite. In addition, Sky has contracted additional SES satellite capacity to also broadcast the channel in standard definition (SD). This provides Sky with access to more than 20 million households in Germany and Austria through ASTRA satellites.
Global media services provider MX1 delivers the technical services, including uplink, signal encoding, and the transmission via ASTRA 19.2° East.
“We are pleased to seal the deal with Sky. The free reception of Sky Sport News in HD as well as in SD is – considering the current state of German households – a groundbreaking decision, as SDstandard TV is still of great importance in Germany,” said Christoph Muehleib, Vice President Sales and Marketing SES and responsible for the marketing of MX1 in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. “By activating both signals, we have the opportunity to reach every household in Germany and Austria which receives their TV signal via satellite.”
Stefan Kunz, Vice President Broadcast Services at Sky Germany, stated “Starting December, Sky Sport News HD, the very first and the only 24-hour sport news channel on German TV, will reach even more viewers via satellite, cable and IPTV. Launching its first free TV channel is an important step for Sky Germany, which we want to achieve with our long time service provider for satellite distribution, MX1.”
Follow us on:
Twitter: https://twitter.com/SES_Satellites
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/SES.YourSatelliteCompany
YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/SESVideoChannel
Blog: http://www.ses.com/blog
SES Pictures are available under http://www.ses.com/21472913/Our_Pictures
SES White papers are available under: http://www.ses.com/18681915/white-papers
About SES
SES (Euronext Paris:SESG) (SESG.PA) is the world-leading satellite operator, with more than 50 geostationary satellites (GEO) and, through its subsidiary O3b Networks, 12 medium Earth orbit satellites (MEO). Focusing on value-added, end-to-end solutions in four key market verticals (Video, Enterprise, Mobility and Government), SES provides satellite communications services to broadcasters, content and internet service providers, and mobile and fixed network operators, as well as business and governmental organizations worldwide. SES's fleet includes the ASTRA satellite system, which has the largest Direct-to-Home (DTH) reach in Europe. Through its ownership of O3b Networks, SES significantly enhances existing data capabilities, and is the first satellite provider to deliver a differentiated and scalable GEO-MEO offering worldwide. Another SES subsidiary, MX1, is a leading media service provider and offers a full suite of innovative digital video and media services.
Further information available at: www.ses.com
About MX1
MX1, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SES (Euronext Paris:SESG) (SESG.PA), is a global leading media services provider. The world’s first media globalizer works with leading media businesses to transform content into the ultimate viewer experience for a global audience. With more entertainment, more innovation and more impact, MX1 offers a full range of content management, delivery and value-added digital media services. Every day, MX1 distributes more than 2,500 TV channels, manages the playout of over 500 channels, delivers syndicated content to more than 120 leading subscription VOD platforms, delivers over 8,000 hours of online video streaming and delivers more than 500 hours of premium sports and live events. The new company has 16 offices worldwide and operates six global state-of-the-art media centers, enabling customers to reach billions of people around the world. To find out more, visit www.mx1.com and follow LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook und YouTube

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006533/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006533/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}