DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Gas Turbines Market, by Rated Capacity, by Application - Global Industry Perspective, Comprehensive Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Segment, Trends and Forecast, 2015 - 2021" report to their offering.
Gas Turbines Market (Heavy Duty and Aeroderivative), by Rated Capacity (1 To 40 MW, 40 To 120 MW, 120 To 300 MW, and Above 300 MW), by Application (Oil & Gas, Power Generation and Other Industries) - Global Industry Perspective, Comprehensive Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Segment, Trends and Forecast, 2015 - 2021
The report covers forecast and analysis for the gas turbines market on a global and regional level. The study provides historic data of 2015 along with a forecast from 2016 to 2021 based on revenue (USD billion). The study includes drivers and restraints for the gas turbines market along with the impact they have on the demand over the forecast period. Additionally, the report includes the study of opportunities available in the gas turbines market on a global level.
The regional segmentation includes the current and forecast demand for North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Rest of the world. This segmentation includes demand for gas turbines based on individual applications in all the regions.
The report segments the global Gas Turbines market as
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1. Preface
Chapter 2. Executive Summary
Chapter 3. Gas turbines Market: Industry Analysis
Chapter 4. Global Gas turbines Market: Competitive Landscape
Chapter 5. Global Gas turbines Market: Design Type Overview
Chapter 6. Global Gas turbines Market: Application Overview
Chapter 7. Global Gas turbines Market: Rated Capacity Overview
Chapter 8. Global Gas turbines Market: Technology Overview
Chapter 9. Global Gas turbines Market: Regional Analysis
Chapter 10. Company Profiles
Chapter 11. Patents
Companies Mentioned
- Alstom S.A
- Ansaldo Energia S.P.A
- Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited
- General Electric Company
- Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems
- Siemens AG
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/7qhdld/gas_turbines

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005643/en/