LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Rosewood Hotels & Resorts® has been appointed by RLH Properties, a company created by BK Partners, to manage Rosewood Mandarina which will open in 2019 as Rosewood’s fifth property in Mexico. Located on the west coast of Mexico just 30 minutes’ drive from the Puerto Vallarta International Airport, the resort will be situated in the breathtaking region of Riviera Nayarit. Rich with a culture that is as colorful as the exotic flora, the Nayarit region is renowned for its diverse landscape with lagoons, rivers, volcanoes, almost 200 miles of beach along the Pacific Ocean, abundant vegetation, and mountains to the west.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005899/en/ 
Rosewood Mandarina will offer 130 guestrooms, suites and villas with panoramic views across the mountains, beach and ocean. Guests will be able to choose from three restaurants and bars including a speciality restaurant and sunset bar as well as more informal options such as a pool grill and beach bar. The resort will offer three pools, fitness center and spa with 10 treatment rooms in addition to event space. The beachfront property will draw inspiration from the local, pre-historic Huichole and Cora cultures, combining modern luxury and comfort with the riches of its extraordinary setting.
With a focus on the element of “water,” the region will provide visitors with exclusive access to three diverse environments: the beach, the lowlands and the highlands, each offering unique activities. From fishing in the winding lagoons or off the ocean coast, to learning about the agricultural foundation of the region, or taking one of many scenic hikes up the mountainside, the diverse landscape will provide a perfect backdrop for travelers to connect with nature.
“Rosewood is excited to expand our brand further into Mexico, a leading destination for luxury travellers today,” says Sonia Cheng, chief executive officer of Rosewood Hotel Group. “With all the natural beauty and adventure that Riviera Nayarit has to offer, Mandarina will effortlessly embody the brand’s A Sense of Place philosophy.”
“We are thrilled to partner with Rosewood on this exciting project of what will become one of the best resorts in Mexico,” says Allen Sanginés-Krause, chairman of RLH Properties’ Board.
Rosewood Mandarina will join a regional network of distinctive Rosewood properties in Mexico and Central America, including Rosewood Mayakoba, Rosewood San Miguel de Allende, Las Ventanas al Paraíso, A Rosewood Resort, and Rosewood Puebla, which is slated to open in 2017.
About Rosewood Hotels & Resorts
Rosewood Hotels & Resorts® manages 18 one-of-a-kind luxury properties in 11 countries, with 18 new hotels under development. Each Rosewood hotel embraces the brand’s A Sense of Place® philosophy to reflect the individual location’s history, culture and sensibilities. The Rosewood collection includes some of the world’s most legendary hotels and resorts, including The Carlyle, A Rosewood Hotel in New York, Rosewood Mansion on Turtle Creek in Dallas and Hôtel de Crillon, A Rosewood Hotel in Paris, as well as new classics such as Rosewood Beijing. Rosewood Hotels & Resorts targets to double its number of hotels in operation by 2020.
For more information: rosewoodhotels.comConnect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram @rosewoodhotels
About RLH Properties, S.A.B. de C.V.
RLH Properties is an asset management holding company whose subsidiaries acquire, develop and manage city and beach high-end hotels and resorts in Mexico and the Caribbean. RLH Properties debuted on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV in Spanish) in November of 2015. Its main goal is to become the leading investment platform of high-end hotels and resorts in Mexico and the Caribbean, through the development of new hotels and the selective acquisition of operating hotels. Currently, the Company owns 66.7% of the Four Seasons Hotel in Mexico City and a 30-hectare lot in the Nayarit Rivera where the One&Only Mandarina Hotel is being developed, as well as another 21.5-hectare lot, located in Mandarina as well, on which it will develop the Rosewood Mandarina. RLH Properties was created by BK Partners.
About BK Partners
BK Partners is an asset management firm devoted to the creation of investment vehicles in different sectors contributing equity and attracting specialized investors for its development, with the goal of creating leading companies in its sectors through the active and direct management with innovative business models, focused on the creation of value and development of expert teams. Currently, BK Partners manages and/or advises different investment vehicles in the renewable energy, tourism and real estate sectors, with assets under management reaching US $1.0 billion.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005899/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005899/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}