DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Sensor-based Gun Systems Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global sensor-based gun systems market to grow at a CAGR of 4.99% during the period 2016-2020.
Sensor-based gun systems are feasible as well as economical for the areas of strategic importance. Automatic gun targeting systems can use both active infrared (IR) or passive IR (PIR) sensors for target detection. Such guns can further be integrated with face recognition systems and Bluetooth technology for greater operational efficiency.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global sensor-based gun systems market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated in the overall market from the sales of sensor-based guns, which operate as a stationary platform (or turret platform) in border patrol and camp or infrastructure protection applications and sensor-based small arms (pistols, revolvers, and rifles) that are used by militaries, border security personnel, law enforcement agencies, hunters, and civilians. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
According to the report, owing to the growing cross-border terrorism and illicit trafficking of weapons, the prime focus of defense agencies has shifted toward securing international borders with advanced technologies. Therefore, the investment in homeland security has also been augmented in the last decade. In terms of securing international borders, technologies used by Israel have emerged as one of the most accepted countermeasures across the globe.
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by product type
Part 07: Geographical segmentation
Part 08: Market drivers
Part 09: Impact of drivers
Part 10: Market challenges
Part 11: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 12: Market trends
Part 13: Vendor landscape
Part 14: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/kfqmz2/global

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005546/en/