DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "UAE Facility Management Market By Type (Property, Cleaning, Security, Catering, Support), By End-Users (Industrial, Commercial, Residential) Forecast & Opportunities, 2021" report to their offering.
The facility management market in the UAE is anticipated to grow at a CAGR of over 9% during 2016-2021.
Property services dominated the country's FM market in 2015, and the segment is anticipated to maintain its dominance over the next five years. However, in terms of growth, the market of security services in the UAE is expected to register fastest CAGR growth over the next five years.
Facility Management (FM) is a profession that encompasses multiple disciplines to ensure functionality of the built environment by integrating people, place, process and technology. Facility management services are essential for the effective operations of any company, as they ensure smooth functioning of any organization and assist the company in focusing over its core business competency.
In order to reduce the dependency on crude oil based exports, the UAE aims to diversify its economy and plans to invest in non-oil based sectors, such as construction and real estate. With improving commercial sector and increasing number of residential projects in the country, the UAE facility management market is expected to grow at a healthy pace during next five years. In addition, emergence of Cloud-based solutions is further expected to aid the growth of the country's facility management market over the span of next five years.
Dubai is the largest demand generating region for facility management services in the UAE on account of tourism sector. Few of the leading players operating in UAE facility management market includes Emrill Services LLC., Imdaad, Farnek Service LLC, EFS Facility Management Services and Khidmah L.L.C, among others.
Market Trends & Developments
Key Topics Covered:
1. Product Overview
2. Research Methodology
3. Analyst View
4. UAE Facility Management Market Outlook
5. UAE Property Service Market Outlook
6. UAE Cleaning Service Market Outlook
7. UAE Security Service Market Outlook
8. UAE Catering Service Market Outlook
9. UAE Support Service Market Outlook
10. Market Dynamics
11. Market Trends & Developments
12. Policy and Regulatory Landscape
13. UAE Economic Profile
14. Competitive Landscape
15. Strategic Recommendations
Companies Mentioned
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/x322kc/uae_facility

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005817/en/