SANTA BARBARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
QAD Inc. (QADA) (QADB), a leading provider of enterprise software and services for global manufacturing companies, today announced that Yamaha Motor Manufacturing Corporation, USA has chosen to deploy QAD Cloud QMS to streamline its supplier request for quotation (RFQ) business process at its Newnan, Georgia facility.
Yamaha Motor Manufacturing Corporation, USA manufacturers all-terrain vehicles, golf cars, water vehicles and multi-passenger recreational off-road vehicles for sale primarily to the United States recreational sports enthusiast market. It is a subsidiary of Yamaha Motor Corporation, USA which is headquartered in Cypress, California and which has operations throughout North America. The company used a custom, manual RFQ solution that was not meeting its needs and wanted to replace it with a solution that would automate and standardize the entire RFQ process.
QAD Cloud QMS will help Yamaha develop a standardized RFQ process that utilizes consistent content and a consistent format. QAD Cloud QMS will reduce the administration time needed for many stages of Yamaha’s RFQ process including:
“QAD Cloud QMS will greatly reduce the time and effort we spend managing the RFQ process in our Newnan facility,” said Senior Division Manager of Purchasing for YMMC, Wayne Pierce. “Our legacy system made it difficult to manage priorities and we did not have a way to generate status updates and alerts. We needed a solution that would let us associate multiple RFQs to a single project, attach drawings to RFQ records, and generate revision history and audit trails. QAD Cloud QMS meets those requirements while taking the stress of administering the system off our hands.”
By employing QAD Cloud QMS, Yamaha will:
“It is great to be working with a respected brand like Yamaha Motor Manufacturing Corporation, USA,” said QAD QMS Division President, Bob Herdoiza. “Using QAD Cloud QMS, Yamaha can eliminate its use of spreadsheets and other time-consuming manual processes, reduce errors and better manage priorities and escalations. It will help improve their control over every RFQ-related document and provide much better visibility into the entire flow.”
QAD Cloud QMS is a feature-rich, fully integrated enterprise quality management solution that saves time, improves productivity and ensures quality by automating a company’s quality processes. QAD Cloud QMS automates the supplier management process, provides supplier scorecards and supplier access to corrective actions. It helps manage supplier certification and automates supplier grading based on performance.
About Yamaha Motor Manufacturing Corporation, USA
Yamaha Motor Manufacturing Corporation (YMMC) was formed in 1986. YMMC was the first manufacturing operation that Yamaha Motor Corporation, Japan established in a highly developed country. YMMC in Newnan, Georgia continues to enhance the enviable worldwide reputation that Yamaha has earned as a result of the quality, reliability and performance built into each of its products. These values are a long-established tradition and are a direct result of the dedication and skill of Yamaha’s employees.
About QAD – The Effective Enterprise
QAD Inc. (QADA) (QADB) is a leading provider of enterprise software and services designed for global manufacturing companies. For more than 35 years, QAD has provided global manufacturing companies with QAD Enterprise Applications, an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system that supports operational requirements, including financials, manufacturing, demand and supply chain planning, customer management, business intelligence and business process management. QAD Enterprise Applications is offered in flexible deployment models in the cloud, on-premise or in a blended environment. With QAD, customers and partners in the automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, high technology, industrial products and life sciences industries can better align daily operations with their strategic goals to meet their vision of becoming more Effective Enterprises.
For more information about QAD, call +1 805-566-6000, visit www.qad.com.
“QAD” is a registered trademark of QAD Inc. All other products or company names herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Note to Investors: This press release contains certain forward-looking statements made under the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements regarding projections of revenue, income and loss, capital expenditures, plans and objectives of management regarding the Company’s business, future economic performance or any of the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current expectations. Words such as “expects,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “could,” “will likely result,” “estimates,” “intends,” “may,” “projects,” “should,” “would,” “might,” “plan” and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These risks include, but are not limited to: risks associated with our cloud service offerings, such as defects and disruptions in our services, our ability to properly manage our cloud service offerings, our reliance on third-party hosting and other service providers, and our exposure to liability and loss from security breaches; demand for the company’s products, including cloud service, licenses, services and maintenance; pressure to make concessions on our pricing and changes in our pricing models; protection of our intellectual property; dependence on third-party suppliers and other third-party relationships, such as sales, services and marketing channels; changes in our revenue, earnings, operating expenses and margins; the reliability of our financial forecasts and estimates of the costs and benefits of transactions; the ability to leverage changes in technology; defects in our software products and services; third-party opinions about the company; competition in our industry; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; delays in sales; timely and effective integration of newly acquired businesses; economic conditions in our vertical markets and worldwide; exchange rate fluctuations; and the global political environment. For a more detailed description of the risk factors associated with the company and factors that may affect our forward-looking statements, please refer to the company’s latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the section entitled “Risk Factors” therein, and in other periodic reports the company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission thereafter. Management does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as required by law.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005012/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}