NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has downgraded approximately $2 billion of the state of Kansas department of transportation (KDOT) highway revenue bonds to 'AA-' from 'AA+'.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The bonds are special obligations of the state of Kansas secured by a gross lien on and payable from revenues received in the State Highway Fund (SHF) and transferred to the Highway Bond Debt Service Fund.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The downgrade reflects the application of Fitch's revised U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria, published on April 18, 2016. Underlying credit factors since the time of Fitch's last review of KDOT are stable; however, under the new criteria, the structure does not meet the requirement for rating a dedicated tax bond without a consideration of the operating risks of the state of Kansas. Although the strength of the pledged revenues supporting the highway revenue bonds would warrant a higher rating, the credit quality of the bonds is limited by the exposure of the SHF to general state operations.
GROWTH PROSPECTS STEADY: Most of the transportation-related revenues pledged to the bonds, including constitutionally-dedicated motor fuels taxes and motor vehicle receipts, have been fairly stable over time, with occasional volatility resulting from shifts in pledged federal transportation aid. On average, the revenue trend supporting the bonds has been positive given the addition of pledged state sales tax revenue that has benefitted from increased allocations via legislative action.
ESTABLISHED PROGRAM AFFECTED BY STATE ACTIONS: KDOT's bond program is a well-established part of a comprehensive and legislatively authorized long-term transportation infrastructure program. Management strengths include active revenue monitoring, multi-year forecasting, and the ability to adjust capital spending in response to repeated state actions to siphon off KDOT funds and direct them toward general state operations.
REVENUE STREAM RESILIENCY: Given limited expected leveraging of the pledged revenues and current high debt service coverage, the structure can absorb a decline in revenues expected to result from a moderate recession scenario.
STRONG LEGAL PROVISIONS: A 3.0x maximum annual debt service (MADS) test for additional bonds limits leverage of pledged resources. Management practices have sustained coverage well in excess of this requirement.
LINKAGE WITH STATE OPERATIONS: KDOT's operations are not distinct from general state operations. Interaction with the state's operations, including sizable transfers to the General Fund and KDOT support for unrelated state programs, has led to periodic fund shifts and cancellation of KDOT capital projects, which Fitch expects will continue in the future.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
LINK TO STATE OPERATING RISKS: The rating is sensitive to our view of the operating risks of the state of Kansas.
MAINTENANCE OF AMPLE COVERAGE: The rating is also sensitive to the continued maintenance of ample coverage by pledged revenues.
CREDIT PROFILE
The downgrade of KDOT's highway revenue bonds to 'AA-' from 'AA+', reflects the application of Fitch's Tax-Supported Rating Criteria, published in April 2016. The program's strengths continue to include a solid 3x ABT and comprehensive management oversight. However, given frequent shifts in KDOT funds to general state operations based on general fund budgetary needs and the state's repeated alterations to the components and/or distribution formulas of the revenues credited to the fund, Fitch views KDOT's bonds as not being sufficiently insulated from the state's general operations.
Operating risks associated with the state include financial operations that have featured an ongoing structural imbalance in recent years. The state has implemented recurring measures to address the imbalance, but has also relied on one-time resources, including transfers from the SHF and pension payment deferrals. A persistent trend of revenues underperforming projections has contributed to the fiscal stress, and led to the need for successive mid-year budget adjustments.
ESTABLISHED PROGRAM; STEADY REVENUE GROWTH PROSPECTS
The program is supported by a diverse stream of broad-based revenues in the SHF and a strong 3x MADS additional bonds test. Bond repayment receives a gross pledge of all revenues in the SHF, including motor fuel taxes, a portion of the state's general sales and use tax, and federal transportation aid. A subset of pledged SHF revenues are constitutionally dedicated for transportation and include 66.37% of state motor fuel tax receipts and a percentage of vehicle registration and license fees. Combined, these constitutionally dedicated revenues alone totaled roughly $515 million in fiscal 2016 (unaudited, cash basis), providing healthy 2.8x coverage of debt service.
Sales and use taxes have grown to represent approximately 37% of SHF revenues; $519 million in fiscal 2016, up from 26% in fiscal 2013, as the SHF's allocation statutorily increased effective July 1, 2013. Effective July 1, 2015, the state increased the sales tax rate to 6.5% from 6.15% as part of its fiscal 2016 gap-closing measures but the SHF's share of the revenue matched that expected from the July 1, 2013 revision. To accomplish that target, the SHF's share of sales tax receipts was changed to 16.226% of receipts in fiscal 2016 and to 16.154% in fiscal 2017. The higher share in fiscal 2016 incorporates a one-month lag in revenue collections.
Federal aid accounted for a sizable 23% of SHF revenue in fiscal 2016. KDOT has forecast modestly increasing support from federal aid in future fiscal years corresponding with current federal transportation aid authorization while continuing to target annual debt service coverage of 4x from state-source revenues alone.
SHF revenues for fiscal 2016, less federal funds, increased 1.2% from fiscal 2015, covering debt service by a solid 5.3x; including federal funds, total revenues decreased by 2.2% as federal revenue fell by 12% from the prior year due to a decline in federal project reimbursements. Coverage in fiscal 2016 from revenues as defined by the bond resolution, which includes federal aid but excludes local revenue, with Fitch's exclusion of a Build America Bond subsidy, is currently estimated at 7.3x. MADS coverage from these same revenues is estimated at 6.9x while constitutionally-dedicated revenue alone cover MADS by 2.5x.
SHF revenues for fiscal 2017 are expected to increase by 3.5% largely due to a boost in federal aid. Absent the increase in federal aid, most state-derived revenue sources are expected to modestly decrease, incorporating KDOT's conservative forecast for these revenues. Overall, KDOT forecasts relatively flat growth in pledged revenues over the next several years, which Fitch views as reasonable.
MULTI-YEAR PLANNING HAMPERED BY STATE DRAWS
KDOT's mission is to plan, develop, and operate various modes of transportation across the state. KDOT's current transportation improvement program, Transportation Works for Kansas (T-WORKS), runs through fiscal 2020 and is expected to fund $7.6 billion in projects over the life of the program. Debt issuance is dependent upon the availability of SHF revenues rather than a statutory dollar limitation, and about $1.175 billion in total bonding is expected to be issued over the course of the program; KDOT reports no current plans for additional borrowing. The balance of the capital program is funded from cash on-hand in excess of debt service requirements.
Over the past several years, KDOT's pay-go capital program has been impacted by state mandates to send increasing funds to assist with statewide budget shortfalls. Funds unrelated to the transportation program have been transferred from KDOT to the state's General Fund, the department of aging and disability services for mental health grants, and to the department of administration for debt service related to statehouse renovations. Transfers from KDOT to other operating funds have grown from $119 million in fiscal 2013 to $542 million in fiscal 2017. In response to statewide revenue shortfalls when developing the fiscal 2017 budget, KDOT delayed $525 million in capital projects in fiscal years 2017 through fiscal 2019. KDOT recently announced a further delay of $32 million in capital projects in fiscal 2017 in response to the state's budget uncertainty.
HIGH RESILIENCY IN DOWNTURN SCENARIO
To evaluate the sensitivity of the dedicated revenue stream to cyclical decline, Fitch considers the results of the Fitch Analytical Sensitivity Tool (FAST), using a 1% decline in national GDP scenario, as well as assessing the largest decline in revenues over the period covered by the revenue sensitivity analysis. Based on a 15-year pledged revenue history, FAST generates a 5.8% scenario decline in pledged revenues. Pledged revenues could withstand a 67% decline, assuming full leveraging to the ABT, or almost 11.6x the scenario output, a high level of resiliency.
Outstanding bonded debt totals just over $2 billion, 16% of which is outstanding in a variable-rate mode. KDOT has floating to fixed rate swaps in place for these bonds.
Additional state guidance on leveraging includes permitting issuance of highway revenue bonds so long as MADS on all outstanding and proposed bonds does not exceed 18% of SHF revenues for the current or any future fiscal year; this 18% cap does not alter the 3.0x additional bonds test. The cap was suspended for fiscal years 2016 and 2017 to accommodate two factors: an early draw of federal funds in fiscal 2015 that reduced SHF revenues in fiscal 2016 and greater than expected debt service expense in fiscal 2017 from a larger bond issuance.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
Applicable CriteriaU.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional DisclosuresDodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Formhttps://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016242Solicitation Statushttps://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016242Endorsement Policyhttps://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005661/en/