STOCKHOLM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Second Quarter
May-October 2016/17
*Adjusted for items affecting comparability (restructuring costs and costs for legal processes, see details on pages 19-20) and bad debt losses.
President and CEO comments
We continue our transformation program to reduce costs, strengthen margins and cash flow, and drive operational excellence. We see strong interest in our innovations and have started to receive orders for our coming MR-linac system.
The global market for radiation therapy is in essence stable, although we continue to see quarterly fluctuations. Our gross orders for the first half year are flat compared with last year. We strengthened our market leadership in emerging markets with strong order intake in China, India, Southeast Asia, Latin America and the Middle East.
The measures for improvement in region North and South America are slowly yielding results and we continue to strengthen our organization. Gross orders returned to growth in the second quarter mainly driven by strong performance in our Latin American operations.
In region Europe, Middle East and Africa, the underlying market remained stable, but we had a challenging comparison to the second quarter last year.
My confidence in the potential of our MR-linac is reinforced and prior to CE mark we signed two orders just after the closing of the second quarter, in line with local regulatory requirements. Our activities towards launch and CE-mark in the second half of the 2017 calendar year are advancing as planned. I really look forward to bringing this groundbreaking technology to our customers and their patients. It’s less than a year away!
As part of our transformation program, we are increasing efficiency and reducing our cost base. At the end of the second quarter, we had reached an annual savings run rate of SEK 500 M out of the SEK 700 M target. The cost savings in combination with favorable currency movements and product mix, strengthened our EBITA margin to 13 percent (10) for the first half of the fiscal year.
Our change of the supply chain process to produce-to-order is now completed and had a negative one-off effect on net sales of SEK 650 M for the first half year. We have increased the efficiency in our supply chain, shortened lead times and reduced working capital. Accordingly, our underlying cash flow has improved by about SEK 530* M adjusted for cash outflow for legal processes and the transformation program.
In the quarter, we launched our new strategy and brand platform. Further, the organization has been aligned with our three core processes, Product Lifecycle Management, Supply Chain Management and Customer Relationship Management. Accompanied by the support and management processes, this change will lead to clearer and more effective processes and workflows. These measures are an essential part of our transformation towards sustainable profitable growth and operational efficiency.
Richard Hausmann,President and CEO
*Cash flow after continuous investments. Adjusted for items affecting comparability of SEK 303 M (refer to page 4), related to cash outflow attributable to legal processes and the transformation program.
Shareholder information
Conference call
Elekta will host a telephone conference at 10:00-11:00 CET on December 1, with president and CEO Richard Hausmann and CFO Håkan Bergström.
To take part in the conference call, please dial in about five minutes in advance.
Swedish dial-in number: +46 (0) 2 00 88 38 17UK dial-in number: +44 (0) 203 008 98 01US dial-in number: +1 646 502 51 18
The telephone conference will also be broadcasted live online (listen only). Please use the link:
http://event.onlineseminarsolutions.com/r.htm?e=1304981&s=1&k=E3404F72CB10AABEE6D468FAD6E086E1
This is information that Elekta AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication at 07:30 CET on December 1, 2016.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006525/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}