LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Triton Digital®, a leading technology provider for the audio industry, today announced that Slacker Radio, a leading internet radio service, has expanded their relationship with Triton, selecting it’s programmatic audio advertising exchange, a2x® to monetize their digital audio advertising inventory in both the United States and Canada. This partnership enables programmatic buyers throughout the US and Canada to execute targeted, at-scale buys across Slacker’s listening audience.
a2x® enables programmatic buying of targeted online and mobile audio ad inventory. The platform’s automated, exchange-driven method of buying and selling ad impressions facilitates precise targeting, eliminating waste and resulting in the highest efficacy for advertisers.
“With expertise in audio and a robust ad tech stack, Triton has been instrumental in helping us both develop our digital strategy and grow our advertising efforts,” said Robert Wilde, VP of Analytics & Monetization at Slacker Radio. “We are confident that the targeting and tracking capabilities of a2x will be incredibly valuable in driving higher ROI for our advertising and brand partners.”
“Slacker is a valued partner, and we are pleased to continue to support their global advertising strategy by enabling their US and Canadian listening audiences to be accessed programmatically,” said John Rosso, President of Market Development at Triton Digital. “Targeting audiences by parameters including age, gender, geography, and device, as well as through the use of third party audience data is an incredibly powerful tool, that meaningfully improves the results for advertisers.”
About Triton DigitalTriton Digital’s® (https://tritondigital.com) technology has connected audio supply to advertising demand since 2006, providing the technical backbone for the digital audio marketplace. The company’s innovative technology enables both live and on-demand publishers to build audience and revenue globally. As a pioneer in the space, Triton Digital has made that audience available programmatically for the first time, maximizing audience buying efficiency for advertisers across the world.
About Slacker RadioSlacker Radio is next-generation personalized radio, allowing music lovers to choose from the broadest selection of human-curated music, news and sports stations that are personalized to their taste. Listeners can also create their own stations from a catalog of songs 10 times as large as the leading service. Slacker can be accessed for free from virtually any mobile device and most new car models. For more information about Slacker, or to listen for free, visit www.slacker.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005195/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}