OVERLAND PARK, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Prince Royce, Sprint, and the Sprint Foundation are celebrating this holiday season by giving back. Prince Royce will perform an exclusive private performance on December 18, 2016 in Los Angeles. Sprint customers and fans in the LA area can register for a pair of tickets and enter for a chance to win VIP tickets when donating their old mobile devices to the 1Million Project, a multi-year initiative benefitting students who lack internet access at home.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005993/en/ 
In early 2015, Prince Royce rejoined the Sprint family, where he once worked and made the money to help jump start his dream musical career. Now Prince Royce and Sprint are working together to help young kids achieve their own aspirations by helping them get connected.
The 1Million Project is a Sprint Foundation initiative with support from Sprint. It was launched to bridge the digital divide and help close the “Homework Gap.” The new program will offer free mobile devices and free high-speed wireless internet access to schools to benefit low-income high school students complete school projects and homework, communicate with teachers and mentors, as well as apply for scholarships, college and even jobs.
“I am proud to support Sprint and the Sprint Foundation in their efforts to benefit 1 million high school students, providing the necessary tools and resources needed to succeed in this day and age,” said Prince Royce, award winning artist. “Over 5 million U.S. households with student-aged kids don’t have internet access at home. Together, we invite everyone to come out and support this great cause and help actively work towards bringing connectivity to all.”
“Without internet access at home, millions of American kids are left without the resources they need to reach their full potential,” said Marcelo Claure, CEO of Sprint. “However, with the support of our customers and our Sprint employees and friends, the 1Million Project will help to give these kids a brighter future. I thank Prince Royce for joining our initiative and lending his talents, and am grateful to all of the customers and fans who will help support the 1Million Project.”
Starting December 3, local fans and community members will be able to visit any of the LA Sprint Stores listed below to donate a used mobile device (phone, tablet, etc.) to the 1Million Project and register for a pair of tickets to the private show while supplies last. In addition, when registering, fans will be able to enter the #Royce4Sprint Holiday Benefit Show VIP Giveaway Sweepstakes for a chance to win 2 VIP tickets.*
Consumers across the country will also have the opportunity to participate in the holiday fun by registering online at www.Royce4Sprint.com to live stream the unique performance and enter the #Royce4Sprint Holiday Benefit Show Watch and Win Sweepstakes for a chance to win special prizes including devices, accessories, and signed Prince Royce memorabilia.
To kick-off this exclusive holiday celebration, Sprint will host an in-store meet and greet event with Prince Royce on December 17. 2016. Fans will have the opportunity to meet Prince Royce.
Visit www.Royce4Sprint.com for meet and greet details, information on how to attend and watch the #Royce4Sprint Holiday Benefit Show and how to enter the Sweepstakes to win great prizes. To learn more about the 1Million Project, please visit www.sprint.com/1MillionProject.
Ticket Offer: While supplies last. 1 pair/person. Must be 18+ or accompanied by adult.
#Royce4Sprint Holiday Benefit Show VIP Giveaway: No purchase or donation necessary to enter or win. Void where prohibited. Open only to legal residents within the state of California who are twenty-one (21) years of age or older at the time of entry. Sweepstakes begins at 9:00a.m. PT on December 3, 2016 and ends at 9:00pm PT on December 15, 2016.
#Royce4Sprint Holiday Benefit Show Watch and Win: No purchase or donation necessary to enter or win. Void where prohibited. Open only to legal residents within the United States. Sweepstakes begins at 9:00a.m. ET on December 3, 2016 and ends at 11:59 p.m. ET on December 18, 2016. For complete Official Rules, including entry instructions and prize details, visit royce4sprint.com. Sponsor: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
About Sprint:
Sprint (NYSE:S) is a communications services company that creates more and better ways to connect its customers to the things they care about most. Sprint served 60.2 million connections as of Sept. 30, 2016 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; leading no-contract brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. Sprint has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America for the past five years. You can learn more and visit Sprint at www.sprint.com or www.facebook.com/sprint and www.twitter.com/sprint.
About the Sprint Foundation:
Since its establishment in 1989, the Sprint Foundation (the philanthropic arm of Sprint) has provided millions of dollars to community organizations across the country. A separate legal entity from Sprint, the Sprint Foundation is able to make a huge impact where it is needed most, supporting hundreds of organizations every year that focus on education, arts and culture, youth development, community development, and disaster relief. For more information visit sprint.com/goodworks
* No purchase or donation is necessary to participate in the Sweepstakes.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005993/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005993/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}