BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Gamer Sensei, the online mastery platform for competitive gamers, today announced the acquisition of DotaCoach.org, an on-demand coaching service for players of Dota 2. The combination of the two companies creates the world’s largest community of professional Dota 2 coaches dedicated to helping competitive gamers win more. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
In conjunction with the news, Gamer Sensei also announced the appointment of Jim Drewry as chief operating officer. Jim joins the company from Warner Brothers Games, where he was VP of Digital Publishing and led a cross-functional team marketing and publishing digital, mobile, and live online games. Jim leads Gamer Sensei’s marketing, product, engineering and analytics teams.
Gamer Sensei will integrate DotaCoach.org’s on-demand coaching service with Gamer Sensei’s patent-pending mastery platform, which matches players seeking to improve their performance with top-ranked professional gamers for coaching. Once matched with a Sensei, players receive personalized in-game coaching, resulting in measurable improvements. On a one-on-one basis, Gamer Sensei coaches help players of Dota 2 and other competitive games to improve their skill and strategy, leading them to win more. Gamer Sensei already offers coaching for League of Legends, Hearthstone, Overwatch and other popular games.
“I’m extremely excited to join Gamer Sensei as we grow the company in this period of incredible interest in professional eSports coaching,” said Jim Drewry. “With the acquisition of DotaCoach.org, our goal is to provide both the best on-demand and pre-scheduled coaching experiences for players around the world. We’re thrilled to welcome the site and its community to Gamer Sensei.”
As part of the acquisition, DotaCoach.org founder Kenn Sippell joins the Gamer Sensei team. “The combination of DotaCoach.org and Gamer Sensei is a great thing for our roster of professional coaches and for the players who love our service,” said Sippell. “Both companies share a focus on building a great community of top pro gamer coaches while providing the best coaching technology platforms. Bringing the DotaCoach.org and Gamer Sensei communities together will create the best possible experience for our players and coaches.”
Players can sign up for live coaching now at http://www.gamersensei.com.
About Gamer SenseiGamer Sensei is the world’s premiere mastery platform for players who want to win more in their favorite online games. Gamer Sensei’s coaches are among the best pro gamers in the world, each matched with students via a patent-pending algorithm. Gamer Sensei coaches provide personalized lessons to help gamers of all skill levels in their quest to make epic plays. Gamer Sensei currently offers coaching for all of today’s most popular games, including Dota 2 from Valve Corporation; Overwatch, Hearthstone, Heroes of the Storm and StarCraft II from Activision Blizzard (ATVI); and League of Legends from Riot Games.
Follow Gamer Sensei on Twitter and Facebook.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005575/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}