SAN FRANCISCO & MORRISTOWN, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
W2O Group, an integrated network of complementary analytics and digitally-oriented marketing and communications firms, today announced the acquisition of Sentient Interactive. This award-winning firm specializes in digital paid and owned media analytics and strategy and marketing campaign execution. It services clients across the healthcare, consumer, financial services and e-commerce sectors.
This acquisition is a key move by W2O Group to develop more fully integrated marketing, communications and digital programs inclusive of user experience design and development, creative execution, branding, PR/communications, and enhanced PESO (paid/earned/shared/owned) media and influencer data analytics and insights, planning and buying and results measurement.
Sentient president and co-founder Adam Cossman will serve as Chief Digital Officer of W2O Group. He will focus on integrating Sentient’s digital strategy and assets with W2O Group’s proprietary analytics models and platforms, and its complementary media and engagement and creative services. Cossman founded Sentient with Jeff Rohwer and Walter Stevenson in 2008 and has grown the firm to more than 50 employees based in Morristown, N.J. and New York.
“Sentient is a powerhouse of digitally-focused, results-driven teams that will strengthen our ability to capture audience insights, complement our diverse analytics offering, and bolster our creative talent across PESO media,” said Jim Weiss, W2O Group founder and CEO. “Combining forces is designed to produce actionable insights, strategic counsel and more robust integrated digital campaign execution that delivers measurable impact for our clients.”
With the addition of Sentient, W2O Group, which was founded and is headquartered in San Francisco, further bolsters its physical presence along the biopharma/life sciences corridor on the East Coast. The firm now has offices in New York, Boston, Morristown, Philadelphia, Wilmington, N.C., and New Hope, Pa.
“Jim and his team of strategists, creatives and analysts are paving the way in audience architecture and “storytizing” and have built incredible momentum,” said Cossman. “We are fired up to be part of such an impressive progressive and forward-thinking organization. This dynamic partnership brings together two companies that share a common vision rooted in analytics, insights and measurement. We’re looking forward to adding to the market leadership position that Jim and his team have created.”
Earlier this year, W2O Group announced that Mountaingate Capital, a leading middle-market private equity investment firm, had secured an investment position in the firm to accelerate continued growth through a mix of business acquisitions, talent, expanded global footprint and increased innovation around its offerings, models and capabilities. Over the last six months, W2O Group has acquired Pure Communications (an integrated communications consultancy primarily for start-up life sciences and medtech clients) and Marketeching Solutions (a leading market research and social listening consultancy focused predominantly in healthcare) to expand its capabilities and footprint across multiple sectors and geographies. The three recent acquisitions have added 100 employees and $25 million in revenue to W2O Group.
“It is more important than ever to quickly and nimbly strengthen and diversify our offerings to meet the changing demands of our clients and give our people more career growth opportunities,” Weiss added. “Integrating Sentient’s prowess into our fold will accelerate those efforts, especially for our healthcare clients, who are experiencing unprecedented digital transformation.”
For additional information regarding Sentient and Adam Cossman’s background and vision, view W2O Group’s Common Sense blog post.
New York-based mergers and acquisitions firm, AdMedia Partners, acted as exclusive financial advisor to Sentient in the transaction.
About Sentient Interactive
Sentient Interactive, LLC, is a digital first, results-driven marketing agency with expertise in technologic and data solutions to drive measurable results for its clients. Sentient’s full suite of digital services includes insights and strategy, creative, tech development and digital media management all focused on "interactivating" their clients’ brands and driving measurable results. Sentient’s industry expertise includes pharmaceuticals and healthcare, financial services, B2B services, and consumer products and services. From insights to ideas to impact, Sentient’s proprietary processes infuse astute strategic thinking with award-winning creative to deliver results that are measured and meaningful. Sentient’s unique results-driven approach is capable of illustrating for clients return on marketing investment prior to, during and after execution of their programs. For more information, please visit www.besentient.com.
About W2O Group
Founded and led by CEO Jim Weiss in 2001, W2O Group is an independent, fast-growing network of complementary digitally-oriented marketing and communications firms focused on integrated business solutions to drive change and growth through "pragmatic disruption" for the world's leading brands and organizations. W2O Group firms employ proprietary analytics models, methodologies and approaches that uncover key insights leading to precise communications and marketing strategies and engagement to deliver business results. W2O Group’s network includes WCG, Twist Mktg, Pure/BrewLife, and Marketeching with a growing footprint of offices in the United States and Europe. For more information, please visit www.w2ogroup.com.
Follow W2O Group on TwitterFollow W2O Group on LinkedInFollow W2O Group on Facebook

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005244/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}