IRVING, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
In letters to members of the House and Senate, Vizient, Inc. announced its support for passage of the revised 21st Century Cures Act, noting that the legislation represents meaningful bipartisan work aimed at improving patient care by investing in systems that are catalysts for biomedical innovations. Vizient is the nation’s largest health care performance improvement company serving a diverse membership that includes academic medical centers, pediatric facilities, community hospitals, integrated health care delivery networks and non-acute health care providers.
Specifically, Vizient supports key provisions in the bill, including:
Vizient also strongly supports the investment the legislation makes in research with the National Institutes of Health, the Precision Medicine Initiative and efforts to combat opioid abuse. These investments have the potential to markedly enhance health care delivery and improve the lives of patients.
About Vizient, Inc.
Vizient, Inc., the largest member-driven health care performance improvement company in the country, provides innovative data-driven solutions, expertise and collaborative opportunities that lead to improved patient outcomes and lower costs. Vizient serves a diverse membership and customer base which includes academic medical centers, pediatric facilities, community hospitals, integrated health delivery networks and non-acute health care providers and represents almost $100 billion in annual purchasing volume. The Vizient brand identity represents the integration of VHA Inc., University HealthSystem Consortium and Novation, which combined in 2015, as well as the recently acquired MedAssets’ Spend and Clinical Resource Management (SCM) segment, which includes Sg2. In 2016, Vizient received a World’s Most Ethical Company designation from the Ethisphere Institute. Vizient headquarters is based in Irving, Texas, with locations in Chicago and other cities across the United States. Please visit www.vizientinc.com as well as our newsroom, blog, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube pages for more information about the company.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006283/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}