DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Market Review of Lingerie - Forecasts to 2022" report to their offering.
The 2016 edition of this long-standing report provides - as ever - the complete retail market statistics and forecasts for the global lingerie market. This edition also focuses on the US and Chinese markets, analyses lingerie's supply chain and provides market shares for key brands and retailers.
Europe accounts for US$11.67bn of the total, and North America for US$7.93bn. Together they have a combined share of 66.3% of the world total. The percentage share held by Asia is 20.4%, and the combined share of South America and the rest of the World is 13.3%.
Brands (retail or manufacturer) resonate with consumers because they trust them. They trust them for fit and hence they are loyal to them. Therefore, hanging on to brands that the consumer believes in is vital. Hanes has done it very well in both North America and Europe with different brand names. Triumph has done it well in both Europe and Asia with the same names.
The future of distribution lies in organized retail. The dis-organized markets in the developing world are being eroded. That means for a brand, being stocked in well-known retailers and for a retailer having either own brands or manufacturer brands that are trusted. The decisions on what to stock, either going forwards up the supply chain, of backwards down it, is one of the most important decisions to be made in this business.
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1: The world lingerie market, 2016
Chapter 2: The world lingerie market, US$bn and units, 2022
Chapter 3: Time lines and growth percentages between key dates
Chapter 4: Selected markets in focus
Chapter 5: Retail market analysis of lingerie
Chapter 6: Product analysis of lingerie
Chapter 7: Consumer analysis of lingerie
Chapter 8: Lingerie supply chain analysis
Chapter 9: Brands and own label retailers
Chapter 10: Key world lingerie industry players
Chapter 11: The future of the global lingerie industry
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/j5kr7q/global_market

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006441/en/