CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Astor Investment Management, a $1.7 billion asset allocation firm, sees growth in investor needs for a “dynamic approach” to asset allocation in response to today’s environment of both low economic growth and low returns in equities and fixed income.
Astor’s suite of investment solutions (SMAs and Mutual Funds) takes the unique approach of dynamically allocating capital across major asset classes, based on the current trend in the U.S. economy. A dynamic approach, Astor believes, will help control risk, limit drawdowns, and generate solid returns—while also helping clients maintain investment discipline for the long term.
“Our mission remains the same: helping investors improve risk-adjusted returns over time as they pursue their investment goals,” said Astor Investment Management Founder and CEO Rob Stein. “We believe that, more than ever in today’s environment, pursuing these goals will require a dynamic approach to asset allocation.”
To help investors better understand dynamic asset allocation, Astor Investment Management is taking a “solution focus” in how it communicates with current and prospective clients. To that end, Astor Investment Management is renaming two of its investment strategies: its flagship Astor Dynamic Allocation (formerly Astor Long/Short Balanced) and Astor Sector Allocation (formerly, Astor S.T.A.R.).
Importantly, these changes are in the name only. Astor’s investment team, philosophy, and approach remain the same across these strategies, as they have since inception.
“We believe it’s very important for our clients and prospective clients to understand that these processes remain unchanged—along with our continued focus on fundamentally driven, macroeconomics-based investing,” said John Eckstein, Astor’s Chief Investment Officer.
About Astor Investment Management:
Astor Investment Management utilizes macroeconomic analysis to guide asset allocation across the business cycle. Using indicators from its data-driven, proprietary Astor Economic Index®, the firm aims to focus on risk mitigation and consistent portfolio appreciation. Astor offers a variety of portfolios that are created with this robust process.
All information contained herein is for informational purposes only. This is not a solicitation to offer investment advice or services in any state where to do so would be unlawful. Analysis and research are provided for informational purposes only, not for trading or investing purposes. All opinions expressed are as of the date of publication and subject to change. Astor and its affiliates are not liable for the accuracy, usefulness or availability of any such information or liable for any trading or investing based on such information.
The Astor Economic Index® is a proprietary index created by Astor Investment Management LLC. It represents an aggregation of various economic data points: including output and employment indicators. The Astor Economic Index® is designed to track the varying levels of growth within the U.S. economy by analyzing current trends against historical data. The Astor Economic Index® is not an investable product. When investing, there are multiple factors to consider. The Astor Economic Index® should not be used as the sole determining factor for your investment decisions. The Index is based on retroactive data points and may be subject to hindsight bias. There is no guarantee the Index will produce the same results in the future. The Astor Economic Index® is a tool created and used by Astor. All conclusions are those of Astor and are subject to change.
911161-548

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006425/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}