SOLNA, Sweden--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
In partnership with Tyresö Bostäder AB, NCC (STO:NCCA) (STO:NCCB) will construct 206 rental apartments close to the Tyresö Centrum shopping center. The project also comprises a parking garage and 1,000 square meters of office space. The order is worth SEK 420 million and will be registered in the fourth quarter.
The new residential area will be constructed in the Hasselbacken property block, where an existing structure has been demolished to make space for new housing. The 206 apartments will be distributed across six buildings, each with five or six stories. NCC will also construct a parking garage and office premises in the area.
“We are pleased to have been given the opportunity, jointly with Tyresö Bostäder, to contribute to residential development in Tyresö Municipality,” says Henrik Landelius, Head of NCC Building in Sweden.
Construction work will commence immediately and be completed in autumn 2019. The first tenants are scheduled to move in during summer 2018.
“We have developed this area as part of a collaboration, meaning that we have been able to jointly control costs and quality to meet established, object-specific goals in a transparent working environment. We are delighted that we can now commence work on this construction project,” says Maria Öberg, President of Tyresö Bostäder.
The project will be registered among orders during the fourth quarter of 2016 in the NCC Building business area.
This is the type of information that NCC could be obligated to disclose pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was issued for publication through the agency of the contact persons set out above on December 1, 2016, at 4.30 p.m. CET.
About NCC
Our vision is to renew our industry and provide superior sustainable solutions. NCC is one of the leading construction, property development and infrastructure companies in Northern Europe, with sales of SEK 62 billion and 18,000 employees in 2015. The NCC share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005920/en/