SALT LAKE CITY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
sPower, a leading independent renewable energy provider, today announced that it has been awarded a 20-year power purchase agreement (PPA) with MCE, a Community Choice Aggregation (CCA) program serving Marin County, Napa County and the cities of Benicia, El Cerrito, Lafayette, Richmond, San Pablo and Walnut Creek. The PPA is for 105MWac of photovoltaic solar power.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005261/en/ 
The power will be generated at sPower’s Antelope Expansion 2 facility, which will be located in northern Los Angeles County in Lancaster, Calif. The commercial operation date is expected in late 2018. sPower estimates a peak construction crew size of 300 - 400 workers installing more than 300,000 solar panels. The modules will be mounted on a single-axis tracking system that follows the sun, allowing the panels to more efficiently capture energy as the sun tracks across the California sky.
“We are excited for our first project with sPower. Their reputation for responsible renewable energy development supports MCE’s goal to address climate change by offering our members responsibly-generated, competitively-priced clean power,” said Dawn Weisz, MCE’s CEO. “Together we are producing cleaner energy sources for California and creating local and union jobs”.
When fully operational, the facility will reliably generate enough pollution-free, renewable energy for more than 23,000 homes and will offset greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to taking 46,000 cars off the road each year.1
“MCE has raised the bar for all CCAs with their visionary sustainability initiatives,” said Hans Isern, sPower SVP Utility Power Marketing. “With projects like Antelope Expansion 2, sPower is providing important economic and workforce benefits. And MCE is able to offer its members the ability to make smart decisions about the environment and their energy sources.”
About sPower: Headquartered in Salt Lake City, with offices in San Francisco, Long Beach and New York City, sPower is a leading independent power producer (IPP) that owns and operates more than 150 utility and commercial distributed electrical generation systems across the U.S. and the UK. To date, sPower has deployed more than $2 billion of capital for its solar and wind projects. With 7.0 gigawatts between operating, construction and pipeline, sPower is actively buying select utility-scale renewable assets in virtually any stage of development in the United States. www.spower.com
About MCE: MCE is a public electricity provider that gives customers the choice of having 50% to 100% of their electricity supplied from clean, renewable sources such as solar, wind, bioenergy, geothermal and hydroelectric at competitive rates. MCE provides service to 255,000 California customers in Marin County, Napa County and the cities of Benicia, El Cerrito, Lafayette, Richmond, San Pablo and Walnut Creek. By choosing MCE, customers help support new in-state and local renewable energy projects and jobs. For more information about MCE, visit www.mcecleanenergy.org.
1 U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator, based on 312,698,000 kWh annual system production.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005261/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005261/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}