MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Jewish Community Services of South Florida, Inc. (JCS) today announced that effective January 1, 2017, it will take over Switchboard of Miami’s 211 Call Center, Helplines and family counseling services. The 211 and Helpline phone numbers will remain the same.
The overwhelming majority of Switchboard’s staff, about 70 professionals, will become JCS employees. The Call Center will be re-locating to JCS’ main office in North Miami, while the counseling services will remain at their current location in South Miami.
“While it is sad that Switchboard is closing its doors, it is comforting to know their vital community services will continue uninterrupted for all the residents of Miami Dade and Monroe Counties,” said Fred Stock, president and chief executive officer of Jewish Community Services. “We want to thank the United Way, Miami Dade County, The South Florida Behavioral Health Network and The Children’s Trust for working with us to transfer their grants in a seamless manner ensuring the continued provision of services. JCS is proud to be in a position to add Switchboard’s services to our portfolio as the visions of both organizations are closely aligned in ensuring a healthier South Florida Community.”
“We also want to thank Ackerman LLC; Bilzin Sumberg; Markowitz, Ringel, Trusty & Hartog and Michael Moecker & Assoc. for providing pro-bono legal and related services to Switchboard and JCS throughout the transition process,” added Stock.
ABOUT JCS OF SOUTH FLORIDA
Jewish Community Services’ mission is to improve the quality of life and self-sufficiency of the Jewish and broader communities throughout South Florida in accordance with Jewish values. Since 1920, Jewish Community Services of South Florida has remained true to its original mission of providing exemplary human services through compassionate and comprehensive programs that promote health and productivity. JCS is a Beneficiary Agency of the Greater Miami Jewish Federation, and an Impact Partner of United Way of Miami-Dade. For more information, please visit www.JCSFL.org or call 305.576.6550.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006236/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}