STATE COLLEGE, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Kdan Mobile Software Ltd. (Kdan Mobile), an Asian software developer headquartered in Taiwan, announced the rebranding of its content ecosystem as Creativity 365 to further emblematize the value of creativity at work. Formerly known as All Access Pack, the Company has updated its Creative App Series and cloud services to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of collaboration in office or at school. With its upcoming Creativity 365 volume purchase program, Kdan Mobile looks set to expand its service scope in new market segments and grow its already-impressive user base.
The development of Creativity 365 is a timely evolution as the Company strengthens its content creation workflow for collaboration needs on particularly mobile devices. Kdan Mobile has reinforced the security protection of its cloud services and five flagship apps in Creativity 365, including PDF Markup, Pocket Scanner, NoteLedge, Animation Desk, and Write-on Video. With its major content publishing platforms - My Markups, NoteTube, and AniZone, Kdan Mobile built an ecosystem for users to showcase their own works and discover inspirations from others’ creations. According to Kdan Mobile, the Company boasts a 60% conversion rate from free trial to paid subscription, and has already secured over two million registered members enjoying the robust data security on the firm’s proprietary Kdan Cloud services.
Business and education users stand to benefit the most from Creativity 365. The ecosystem looks set to fulfill different work scenarios as it supports all major operating systems including iOS, Android, Macintosh, and Windows. “We aim to ride on the BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) movement, making the platform easily adaptable to different workflows,” said Kenny Su, CEO of Kdan Mobile, “Small-medium enterprises, studios, and education institutions can now easily collaborate over Kdan Cloud and its content publishing platforms across different devices and various operation systems.”
Kdan Mobile claims that it will continue on enhancing Creativity 365 to be a solid mobile solution for collaboration. Part of the strategy involves extending the team account management in its content creation platforms. Currently, Creativity 365 provides a variety of tools that enable different team members to create and manage digital contents seamlessly. The Company represented that users would be able to streamline their workflow with Creativity 365’s multimedia and document solutions, share the contents to the publishing platforms or sync with Kdan Cloud, and invite others to access and continue editing the contents across all smart devices, desktop computers, and Macs.
Along with the launch of Creativity 365 and volume purchase programs, Kdan Mobile now offers a 3-month free trial to education users that runs through January 6th, 2017. Eligible students, faculty and staff could sign up at https://kdanmobile.typeform.com/to/mvpSmn to test out Creativity 365. For enterprise users, Creativity 365 Business volume package is available upon request at Kdan Creative Store https://creativestore.kdanmobile.com/creativity365business.
About Kdan Mobile Software Ltd.
Since 2009, Kdan Mobile has been a dedicated provider of mobile software applications and online services that allow users to better leverage their productivity and creativity. Kdan's works are being backed by more than 60 million downloads worldwide; their solutions empower the world to create, distribute, and conjoin projects via a variety of devices across platforms. Kdan Mobile is headquartered in Taiwan, and with operations in China and the U.S.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005643/en/