DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Optical Coatings: Technologies and Global Markets" report to their offering.
The global market for optical coatings is expected to reach $14.2 billion by 2021 from $9.5 billion in 2016, rising at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8.3% from 2016 through 2021.
This report covers, with a critical eye, the global optical coatings marketplace. It focuses particularly on the markets and opportunities for optical coatings in the consumer electronics, solar, telecommunications, transportation, defense and medical markets.
This study is presented in easy-to-follow sections that overview this subject; define the technology; segment the market by product type, application and region; profile companies; and identify suppliers. All dollar amounts are expressed in current 2015 U.S. dollars. Thin layers of coating are also applied on optical systems exclusively for protective purposes. However, those protective materials have not been considered in the scope of this research.
Materials are segmented by oxide, fluoride, metal and other. Applications are divided into consumer electronics, architecture, solar, telecommunications, transportation, medical, defense/security and industrial.
Individual applications are then further broken down; for example, consumer electronics is then considered via AR coatings, reflective, conductive, filter and electrochromic.
By region, the market is segmented into North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Rest of the World.
This is a complete source for serious players in the optical coatings marketplace.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1: Introduction
2: Summary
3: Overview
4: Optical Coatings Markets, By Materials
5: Markets By Coating Type
6: Markets By Application
7: Industry Dynamics
8: Optical Coating Market By Region
9: Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/3xbw59/optical_coatings

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005168/en/