Ford Motor Co.,  General Motors Co., and most other major automakers beat analysts’ estimates for U.S. sales on demand for pickups and sport utility vehicles, boosted by holiday-season dealmaking. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV, with a rare stumble in Jeep sales, posted a decline that was bigger than predicted.
Ford shares rose the most in four years after the company reported a 5.1 percent sales increase that included the highest November deliveries for F-Series trucks since 2001, far exceeding the average estimate. GM’s light-vehicle sales gained 10 percent, aided by incentives topping $10,000 on some Silverado pickups and Suburban SUVs. Sales also topped forecasts at Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co.
More from Bloomberg.com: OPEC Confounds Skeptics, Agrees to First Oil Cuts in 8 Years
Auto sales are running at near-record levels as the U.S. economy continues to expand with little inflation, according to a Federal Reserve survey . And relatively low gasoline prices, combined with aggressive promotions , are spurring sales of pickups and SUVs, which tend to be larger and less efficient than cars. So-called light trucks, which include minivans, may have outsold cars by 2-to-1 in November, according to Tim Fleming of Kelley Blue Book.
“All economic indicators show significantly improved optimism about the U.S. economy,” Mustafa Mohatarem, GM’s chief economist, said in a statement. “We believe the U.S. auto industry is well-positioned for sales to continue at or near record levels into 2017.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Goldman Says Trump's Presidency Will Benefit Stocks in Almost Every Sector
Automakers and dealers drew from a grab bag of holiday-season tricks to sustain sales. GM dangled 20 percent discounts nationwide on its Chevrolet, GMC and Buick brands in November, and makers of luxury autos revived annual promotions such as “the Season of Audi” and Lexus’s “December to Remember.”
Total light-vehicle sales probably rose about 3.8 percent in November, according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. GM on Thursday predicted the month’s annual sales rate, adjusted for two extra selling days this November, would be about 17.9 million vehicles -- more than the 17.7 million average estimate. So far this year, the annual sales rate is running about 17.5 million, GM said, or about equal to 2015’s record total.
More from Bloomberg.com: Wall Street Wins Again as Trump Picks Bankers, Billionaires
Ford’s shares rose as much as 6.9 percent to $12.78, the biggest intraday gain since October 2012. GM rose 5 percent to $36.27 at 10:24 a.m.
For most automakers, light-truck demand fueled sales:
Incentives that were introduced last month may ultimately help determine whether 2016 ends up as a record seventh straight year with an industrywide sales gain. Many of the automakers’ deals pegged to Black Friday actually ran all through November and some stick around the rest of the year.
GM’s full-size pickup incentives through Nov. 20 jumped 46 percent from a year earlier to $5,753, according to data from researcher J.D. Power obtained by Bloomberg, compared with Ford’s $4,467, a 5 percent increase, and Fiat Chrysler’s Ram at $6,062, up 19 percent.
“If this month’s forecast holds, December’s year-over-year sales only need to be flat to set a new annual record in 2016,” Jessica Caldwell, an analyst with Edmunds.com, wrote in an e-mailed statement.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Ford, GM Sales Exceed Estimates as Light-Truck Demand Surges on bloomberg.com