MCLEAN, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Hilton (HLT) today announced that through its Global Month of Service program, Team Members from 93 countries had contributed more than 291,000 volunteer hours to 4,166 community projects around the world. As part of Hilton’s Travel with Purpose corporate responsibility program, Global Month of Service is a celebration of the community engagement efforts throughout the entire year.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161210005008/en/ 
“A core part of Hilton’s mission is to have a lasting, positive impact on the thousands of communities where we live, work and travel, and that is the inspiration for our annual Global Month of Service,” said Christopher J. Nassetta, president and CEO of Hilton. “This year, our Team Members worked together to demonstrate a commitment to service by sharing their unique hospitality skills in truly inspiring ways.”
Throughout October, Hilton collaborated with hundreds of organizations across the globe to participate in service projects from outdoor garden classrooms to mentorship programs to youth workshops. Projects aligned with Travel with Purpose’s three priority areas: creating opportunities, strengthening communities and preserving the environment.
Creating Opportunities
Strengthening Communities
Preserving The Environment
As a business of people serving people, Hilton has been dedicated to spreading its hospitality from properties into local communities for nearly 100 years. While community service is highlighted during October, Hilton’s Team Members dedicate their time, passion and unique brand of hospitality to create positive change throughout the entire year. Since 2012, Hilton Team Members have completed more than 14,960 projects worldwide and contributed more than 804,620 hours of community service.
About Travel with Purpose
Travel with Purpose is Hilton's corporate responsibility commitment to providing shared value to its business and communities by creating opportunities for individuals to reach their full potential; strengthening communities where Hilton operates; and preserving environments through the measurement, analysis and improvement of the company's use of natural resources. Visit cr.hiltonworldwide.com to learn more.
About Hilton
Hilton (HLT) is a leading global hospitality company, comprising more than 4,800 managed, franchised, owned and leased hotels and timeshare properties with nearly 789,000 rooms in 104 countries and territories. For 97 years, Hilton has been dedicated to continuing its tradition of providing exceptional guest experiences. The company's portfolio of 13 world-class global brands includes Hilton Hotels & Resorts, Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts, Conrad Hotels & Resorts, Canopy by Hilton, Curio - A Collection by Hilton, DoubleTree by Hilton, Embassy Suites by Hilton, Hilton Garden Inn, Hampton by Hilton, Tru by Hilton, Homewood Suites by Hilton, Home2 Suites by Hilton and Hilton Grand Vacations. The company also manages an award-winning customer loyalty program, Hilton HHonors®. Hilton HHonors members who book directly through preferred Hilton channels have access to benefits including an exclusive member discount, free standard Wi-Fi, as well as digital amenities that are available exclusively through the industry-leading Hilton HHonors app, where Hilton HHonors members can check-in, choose their room, and access their room using a Digital Key. Visit news.hiltonworldwide.com for more information and connect with Hilton on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr, LinkedIn and Instagram.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161210005008/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161210005008/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}