IRVING, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Rex W. Tillerson, chairman and chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (XOM), today presented The Gatehouse with the company’s annual holiday gift of $50,000, advancing the non-profit agency’s mission of providing housing and support for women and children to build new lives.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006275/en/ 
Located in Grapevine, Texas, The Gatehouse is a supportive community where single women, mothers and their children can live and participate in an individually tailored program to gain independence after experiencing domestic violence, underemployment or other crises.
“The Gatehouse offers a unique and comforting sanctuary for women and their children who are facing challenges that may seem impossible to overcome,” Tillerson said. “ExxonMobil is proud to support its important work and mission to assist these families in such times of need while guiding them toward future success and independence.”
The Gatehouse, officially opened in 2015, is the second initiative of the 501(c)(3) projectHandUp. The campus includes housing for nearly 100 families who receive shelter, clothing, food, household supplies, transportation, and health and child care. Families also participate in financial planning, life skills training and professional and career counseling. Most families graduate the program and are able to become self-sufficient after two years.
“We’re blessed to receive this incredible gift from Mr. Tillerson and ExxonMobil, which allows us to support even more families building new lives during this holiday season,” said Deborah Lyons, The Gatehouse executive director. “Community support, like this generous donation, is essential to making a difference right where we’re planted, in our own backyard.”
ExxonMobil established the holiday gift in 2006 to support North Texas nonprofit agencies during the holiday season. Past recipients include ACH Child and Family Services, Children’s Advocacy Center of Denton County, Grapevine Relief and Community Exchange (GRACE), Interfaith Housing Coalition, Irving Cares, Jonathan’s Place, Lena Pope Home, Presbyterian Night Shelter of Tarrant County, St. Philip’s School and Community Center and Vogel Alcove.
About Exxon Mobil Corporation
Exxon Mobil Corporation, the largest publicly traded international oil and gas company, uses technology and innovation to help meet the world’s growing energy needs. ExxonMobil engages in a range of philanthropic activities that advance education, with a focus on math and science in the United States, promote women as catalysts for economic development, and combat malaria. In 2015, together with its employees and retirees, ExxonMobil, its divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation provided $268 million in contributions worldwide. Additional information on ExxonMobil’s community partnerships and contribution programs is available at www.exxonmobil.com/community.
About The Gatehouse
The Gatehouse is a supportive living community that offers women and children in crisis safe refuge, ample time, practical resources and healthy relationships in order to discover new paths for permanent, positive change. An initiative of the 501(c)(3) projectHandUp, single women, moms and children can live and participate in the program to build new lives after experiencing domestic violence, underemployment or a crisis. Located on 61 acres in the heart of the Dallas/Fort Worth metroplex, The Gatehouse community will serve 96 families. Members participate in the Independent Life Program, individually tailored to meet their needs, and can last up to 2 ½ years. It includes needs that traditionally hold women back from successfully breaking free from crisis situations: safe housing, food, clothing, transportation, child care, physical and mental health care, employment guidance, life skills training, professional counseling, financial aid, further education and legal counsel. Learn more at www.gatehousegrapevine.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006275/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006275/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}