COPPELL, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Mannatech®, Incorporated (MTEX), a global health and wellness company committed to transforming lives to make a better world, today announced that in the coming weeks it will make several of its innovative, high-quality nutritional supplement products available in Mainland China through a cross-border e-commerce website that offers a unique online retail shopping experience† at www.MeiTaiChina.com.
About Mannatech
Mannatech, Incorporated, offers a profound wellness experience that makes a difference in the lives of people across the world. Through its innovative Glyconutrition products, Mannatech changes lives, providing an unprecedented level of natural wellness*, freedom and purpose. With more than 20 years of experience and operations in more than 26 markets, Mannatech is committed to transforming lives. For more information, visit www.mannatech.com.
Please note: This release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of phrases or terminology such as “intend” or other similar words or the negative of such terminology. Similarly, descriptions of Mannatech’s objectives, strategies, plans, goals or targets contained herein are also considered forward-looking statements. Mannatech believes this release should be read in conjunction with all of its filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and cautions its readers that these forward-looking statements are subject to certain events, risks, uncertainties and other factors. Some of these factors include, among others, Mannatech’s inability to attract and retain associates and members, increases in competition, litigation, regulatory changes and its planned growth into new international markets. Although Mannatech believes that the expectations, statements and assumptions reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cautions readers to always consider all of the risk factors and any other cautionary statements carefully in evaluating each forward-looking statement in this release, as well as those set forth in its latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and other filings filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including its current reports on Form 8-K. All of the forward-looking statements contained herein speak only as of the date of this release.
†Customers who invite other customers to the Mannatech China cross border e-commerce site gain rewards for future product purchases or cash redemption. The e-commerce business model is not multi-level marketing or direct selling.
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005402/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}