BOULDER, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
A recent slide-based report from Navigant Research explores the US market for the Internet of Things (IoT), focusing on technology trends, customer adoption, utility rollouts, and the vendor landscape, with cost curve projections and adoption forecasts, through 2025.
The developing IoT market will require a rethinking of current utility business models to capture market share in this broader demand management landscape. IoT enables customers to manage their energy independently, as the technologies opens the door to ongoing relationships through devices, software, and services. Click to tweet: According to a recent report from @NavigantRSRCH, the IoT market is expected to reach $500 million in 2020.
“IoT is not one device or technology but a platform of data collection devices, secure data networks, software, and services that delivers actionable insight,” says Casey Talon, principal research analyst with Navigant Research. “If utilities seize the opportunity, they can leverage this to enhance customer offerings and increase customer engagement.”
To position their businesses to succeed, utilities should develop an IoT service strategy to compete with investment on the customer side of the meter, according to the report. Utilities should also consider developing, acquiring, or partnering to offer IoT-enabled managed services.
This report, IoT Enabled Managed Services, examines the IoT market in the United States, with a focus on technology trends, customer adoption, utility rollouts, and the vendor landscape. Cost curve projections and adoption forecasts are provided through 2025, along with estimated customer distribution by U.S. state. Featuring Navigant Research’s Utility Technology Disruption Matrix and Execution Grid, the report also examines implications for traditional utility business models, features utility case studies, and offers strategic recommendations for industry stakeholders to position for long-term success. An Executive Summary of the report is available for free download on the Navigant Research website.
About Navigant Research
Navigant Research, the dedicated research arm of Navigant, provides market research and benchmarking services for rapidly changing and often highly regulated industries. In the energy sector, Navigant Research focuses on in-depth analysis and reporting about global clean technology markets. The team’s research methodology combines supply-side industry analysis, end-user primary research and demand assessment, and deep examination of technology trends to provide a comprehensive view of the Energy Technologies, Utility Transformations, Transportation Efficiencies, and Buildings Innovations sectors. Additional information about Navigant Research can be found at www.navigantresearch.com.
About Navigant
Navigant Consulting, Inc. is a specialized, global professional services firm that helps clients take control of their future. Navigant’s professionals apply deep industry knowledge, substantive technical expertise, and an enterprising approach to help clients build, manage and/or protect their business interests. With a focus on markets and clients facing transformational change and significant regulatory or legal pressures, the Firm primarily serves clients in the healthcare, energy and financial services industries. Across a range of advisory, consulting, outsourcing, and technology/analytics services, Navigant’s practitioners bring sharp insight that pinpoints opportunities and delivers powerful results. More information about Navigant can be found at navigant.com.
* The information contained in this press release concerning the report, IoT Enabled Managed Services, is a summary and reflects Navigant Research’s current expectations based on market data and trend analysis. Market predictions and expectations are inherently uncertain and actual results may differ materially from those contained in this press release or the report. Please refer to the full report for a complete understanding of the assumptions underlying the report’s conclusions and the methodologies used to create the report. Neither Navigant Research nor Navigant undertakes any obligation to update any of the information contained in this press release or the report.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005022/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}