FAIRFIELD, Iowa--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cambridge recently announced the fourth annual Jim Guy Memorial Scholarship program will award two $1,000 scholarships, with one awarded to the son or daughter of a Cambridge associate and a second given to the son or daughter of an independent Cambridge advisor. Applications will be accepted through February 20, 2017, with the scholarship funding intended for the summer or fall terms in 2017.
“We are proud to honor Jim Guy through Cambridge’s annual Jim Guy Memorial Scholarships because they extend his legacy and continue to support young individuals as they begin their career paths,” said Executive Vice President Dan Sullivan. “In addition to his success as an independent advisor and one of our firm’s executive leaders, Jim was a passionate mentor and coach to many associates and advisors.”
Cambridge’s Jim Guy Memorial Scholarship program is now open and accepting applications through February 20, 2017. Applicants must be the son or daughter of a Cambridge associate or advisor with selection based on the following criteria and weighting factors:
Completed applications should be returned to Cambridge for the attention of the firm’s Corporate Relations Committee. Application forms are available through Cambridge by email at publicrelations@cir2.com. Qualified applications will be considered immediately following the close of the application process in February with the intent for funding to be announced in May of 2017, with funding provided to the applicable college, university, or technical school for the summer or fall terms. Preference among annual applicants may be given to fields of study focused on journalism, finance, or woodworking in keeping with Jim Guy’s academic background, profession, and personal interests. The applicant’s parent must be formally connected with Cambridge as an associate or advisor as of February 20 of the scholarship award year.
Sullivan led the development of the Jim Guy Memorial Scholarship program. Dan and Jim shared more than 30 years as friends and independent advisors, including serving together as members of Cambridge’s Board of Directors.
“I look forward to the exciting careers that will be launched in years to come as we continue to honor Jim,” said Sullivan. “His passing was a personal loss, but creating and sharing success is a highly positive and fitting tribute to his memory. These scholarships allow us to both appreciate our friend and share his passion for learning.”
About Jim GuyJim joined Cambridge’s executive group in 1999, and served at the broker-dealer level while continuing to lead his independent practice based in Baltimore alongside his wife and business partner, Helen. In that time, Jim was a major force on the Cambridge Board of Directors and provided senior executive leadership for Cambridge’s recruiting and marketing. Jim was instrumental in the development of Cambridge’s fee-based programs, and he also focused on supporting and improving the independent rep-advisor’s business through practice management, marketing initiatives, and product services that help streamline operations, accelerate revenue growth, and build practice equity, all of which were driven by his personal and professional conviction for business continuity and succession planning. The hearts and minds of those associated with Cambridge hold fond memories of Jim as our dear friend and colleague. We are proud to honor his legacy with Cambridge’s Jim Guy Memorial Scholarship program which will award at least two $1,000 scholarships annually to the son or daughter of a Cambridge associate and son or daughter of an independent Cambridge advisor.
About CambridgeCambridge Investment Group, Inc. is a privately-controlled firm with a national reach across the financial services industry consisting of multiple broker-dealers and RIAs, including: Cambridge Investment Research Advisors, Inc. – a large corporate RIA; and Continuity Partners Group, LLC – a special purpose broker-dealer and registered investment advisor; and Cambridge Investment Research, Inc. – an independent broker-dealer, member FINRA/SIPC, that is among the largest privately-controlled independent broker-dealers in the country supporting over 3,000 independent financial professionals nationwide who serve their clients as registered representatives and investment advisor representatives, choosing to use either Cambridge’s firm Registered Investment Adviser or their own. For more information visit www.joincambridge.com.
Securities offered through Cambridge Investment Research, Inc., a broker-dealer, member FINRA/SIPC, and investment advisory services offered through Cambridge Investment Research Advisors, Inc., a Registered Investment Adviser. Both are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Cambridge Investment Group, Inc.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006303/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}