WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO) President and CEO James C. Greenwood issued the following statement today regarding passage of the 21st Century Cures Act by the U.S. House of Representatives:
“The 21st Century Cures Act passed by the House of Representatives today is an important victory for patients and for the next generation of medical innovation. The legislation advances important patient-centered policies that can speed the pace of drug development, while authorizing essential funding for scientific discovery and the promotion of biomedical advancements that can help transform healthcare for patients with the promise of next generation modern medicines.
“We applaud the work of the House for making sure that this important legislation remained a priority. We particularly want to recognize Representatives Upton, DeGette and Pallone for their tireless, bi-partisan leadership in crafting and advancing the Act. We urge the Senate to swiftly consider and pass the Act so that patients may begin to benefit from its important advances.”
Read BIO’s letter in support of the 21st Century Cures Act here.
About BIO
BIO is the world's largest trade association representing biotechnology companies, academic institutions, state biotechnology centers and related organizations across the United States and in more than 30 other nations. BIO members are involved in the research and development of innovative healthcare, agricultural, industrial and environmental biotechnology products. BIO also produces the BIO International Convention, the world’s largest gathering of the biotechnology industry, along with industry-leading investor and partnering meetings held around the world. BIOtechNOW is BIO's blog chronicling “innovations transforming our world” and the BIO Newsletter is the organization’s bi-weekly email newsletter. Subscribe to the BIO Newsletter.
Upcoming BIO Events Upcoming BIO Events
BIO CEO & Investor ConferenceFebruary 13-14, 2017New York, NY
BIO International ConventionJune 19-22, 2017San Diego, CA

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006486/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}