DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Sleeping Aids Market: By Sleep Disorder (Insomnia, Sleep Apnea, Restless Leg Syndrome, Narcolepsy, Sleep Walking) Product (Mattress & Pillow, Sleep Labs, Medication, Sleep Apena Devices) Medication (Prescription Based, OTC drugs)-Forecast (2016-2021)" report to their offering.
This report identifies the global sleeping aids market size for the years 2014-2016, and forecast of the same for year 2021. It also highlights the market drivers, restraints, growth indicators, challenges, and other key aspects with respect to global sleeping aids market.
Sleep aids are pills and medical devices that enable a person suffering from sleep disorder to fall asleep. Sleep aids consist of various products such as medications, sleep laboratories, sleep apnea devices, and mattresses & pillows. Higher stress levels amongst people in developed nations and fast changing life styles in the developing nations are expected to remain key growth drivers for the sleeping aid products during the period of study and are also expected to intensify as population with higher stress levels in the near future.
Geographically North America dominated sleeping aids market driven by higher stress levels amongst citizens, higher awareness about such products and higher spending by the citizens towards healthcare expenditure. North America was followed by Europe and Asia-Pacific as second and third largest market for sleeping aids market. Asia Pacific is projected to have fastest growth, owing to rapidly increasing people living under stress due to changing lifestyle, increased spending, and increasing awareness amongst population in developing nations such as China, and India in this region.
Some of the major companies' profiles in detail are as follows:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Sleeping Aids Market - Market Overview
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Landscape
4. Sleeping Aids Market- Market Forces
5. Sleeping Aids Market- Strategic Analysis
6. Sleeping Aids Market, By Sleeping Disorders
7. Sleeping Aids Market, By Product
8. Sleeping Aids Market, By Medication
9. Sleeping Aids Market, By Geography
10. Sleeping Aids Market - Market Entropy
11. Company Profiles (Overview, Financials, SWOT Analysis, Developments, Product Portfolio)
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/85x64t/sleeping_aids

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005883/en/