CINCINNATI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
ClearArc Capital announced today it has been recognized with Top Guns status by Informa Investment Solutions' PSN manager database. The ranking status recognizes top performing institutional investment strategies. Two of the firm’s strategies were among the top 10 performers within one or more peer groups reporting to PSN, the longest-running investment manager database in North America.
Mitch Stapley, CFA, Chief Investment Officer for ClearArc Capital states, “We are again honored to be recognized by PSN in the Core Plus Universe. Our Strategic Income Plus and Core Plus Fixed income strategies have garnered much attention with our focus on lessening correlation to traditional fixed income benchmarks. As the bond market adapts to rising rates moving forward, we are well positioned with hedging capabilities to adjust as appropriate. We attribute our results to the soundness of our investment philosophy, our robust investment process, as well as the experience and chemistry of our investment team.”
ClearArc Capital’s PSN Top Guns products for the quarter include:
According to Informa Investment Solutions' PSN manager database ranking system, products in the 3-star category were top ten performers within their respective universes, based on returns for the three-year period. Products in the 5 and 6-star category must have an R-Squared of 0.80 or greater relative to the style benchmark for the recent five-year period. Moreover, products must have returns greater than the style benchmark for the three latest three-year rolling periods. After that they select only the products which standard deviation for the five-year period is equal or less than the median standard deviation for the peer group. The 5-star is gained off of top ten returns and the 6-star is earned from the top ten information ratios.
"We congratulate ClearArc Capital on their distinction as a PSN Top Gun. This highly anticipated quarterly ranking recognizes elite performers on the leading investment manager database in North America and is widely used by institutional asset managers and investors across our platform,” said Leno Toich, Managing Director of Informa Investment Solutions. “PSN Top Guns ranks products in six proprietary star categories in over 50 universes.”
The complete list of PSN Top Guns and an overview of the methodology can be located on http://www.informais.com/resources/psn-top-guns. For more details on the methodology behind the PSN Top Guns Rankings or to purchase PSN Top Guns Reports, contact Ruth Calderon at ruth.calderon@informais.com.
About Informa Investment Solutions
A market leader in intelligence and software solutions for investment professionals and financial institutions of all sizes, Informa Investment Solutions offers a robust set of analytics and tools to help you grow and retain your business. With a nearly 40-year history, Informa Investment Solutions is part of Informa PLC, a leading business-to-business knowledge provider serving International markets. Informa Investment Solutions has set the standard for providing turnkey and customizable applications for performing manager searches, building wealth plans, and producing client reports and investment marketing materials for companies worldwide. For more information, please visit http://www.informais.com/ and follow https://twitter.com/InformaInvest.
About ClearArc Capital
ClearArc Capital, Inc. provides investment strategies designed to meet the evolving needs of institutional clients. The firm offers a unique approach that includes research across capital structures in the search for income and return. Through specialized investment teams that are highly adaptive to today’s markets, ClearArc Capital maintains a primary focus on client success.
ClearArc Capital, Inc. is an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Fifth Third Bank, with offices in Cincinnati, OH, Grand Rapids, MI, and Louisville, KY. Registration as an investment adviser does not imply any level of skill or training. Although taken from reliable sources, ClearArc Capital cannot guarantee the accuracy of information received from third parties. There is no guarantee that these objectives will be achieved. Rating is not indicative of future performance. www.ClearArcCapital.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006246/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}