TEMPLE, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
McLane Company, Inc., a leading supply chain services company providing grocery and foodservice supply chain solutions throughout the U.S., announced today it has been awarded services for 29 Xtra Mart c-store locations recently acquired by Binghamton, NY-based Mirabito Holdings Inc.
As part of the multi-year agreement, McLane will begin servicing the 29 Xtra Mart locations in central New York and Northeast Pennsylvania starting January 1, 2017. With the addition of the 29 Xtra Mart locations, which will be rebranded as Mirabito c-stores, McLane now handles all of Mirabito’s c-store locations in the eastern region, bringing the total to more than 100 stores.
“Mirabito has had a long standing relationship with McLane Company and have trusted the support of the company’s senior leadership team for over 20 years,” said President and Chief Executive Officer Joe Mirabito. “Their commitment to our future is invaluable and we look forward to a long and successful relationship.”
“McLane Company has been servicing our current stores for 20 years and we are excited that McLane will be servicing our newest addition to the Mirabito Family. McLane has been a critical part of our success and growth. Their commitment to our business, professionalism, customer service, and ability to adapt and develop technology applications aligns with our future growth plans and superior customer shopping experience,” added Chief Operating Officer Rich Mirabito.
A customer of McLane since 1997, Mirabito has stated the supply chain’s strategic leadership, operating excellence, and tech solution offerings as contributors to its growing footprint in the eastern region over the years. Specifically, through its participation in McLane’s Center for Category Innovation and inclusion of the supply chain’s foodservice solution, McLane Kitchen, Mirabito plans to roll out newly remodeled stores and introduce specialty, fresh and frozen items and equipment starting in 2017.
“Mirabito is a well-respected and a long-time customer of McLane, so it’s an honor they have chosen us to provide services for the acquired Xtra Mart business,” said Tony Frankenberger, president at McLane. “Our portfolio of services will enable Mirabito to provide a wider variety of foodservice offerings and upgraded footprint experience to its rapidly growing customer base.”
About Mirabito
Mirabito owns and operates 101 Mirabito Convenience Stores located throughout central New York, and now Northeast Pennsylvania. Mirabito has been serving communities with high quality petroleum products, groceries, beverages, snacks and the freshest food service offerings for over 90 years. In addition to the stores, since 1927 Mirabito has been providing energy needs for families and businesses throughout upstate New York. Mirabito Energy Products offers a variety of products including heating oil, propane, natural gas, coal, gasoline, diesel fuels, and kerosene. At Mirabito they are proud of their history and of all our Mirabito family of companies. Our customers and clients are the most important element for our success, and we strive to understand their needs. If we can be of service to you, whether it’s energy needs, or simply gas and groceries on the way home, we're there to help.
About McLane
McLane Company, Inc. is one of the largest supply chain services leaders in the U.S. providing grocery and foodservice supply chain solutions for convenience stores, mass merchants, drug stores and chain restaurants throughout the United States. McLane, through McLane Grocery, McLane Foodservice and wholly owned subsidiary, operates 80 distribution centers across the U.S. and one of the nation’s largest private fleets. The company buys, sells and delivers more than 50,000 different consumer products to nearly 90,000 locations across the U.S. In addition, McLane provides alcoholic beverage distribution through its wholly owned subsidiary, Empire Distributors, Inc. McLane is a wholly owned unit of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK-A) and employs more than 20,000 teammates.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005233/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}