TINLEY PARK, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Panduit Corp, a world-class developer and provider of leading-edge physical infrastructure and connectivity solutions, is proud to announce that its Corporate Research and Development “Fiber Research Department” has received the IWCS (International Cable & Connectivity Symposium) “Jack Spergel Memorial Award for Outstanding Technical Paper 2015” for “Characterization of Modal Dependence of MMF (multimode fiber) Chromatic Dispersion for Wideband MMF.” The recognition was announced at this year’s IWCS conference in Providence, RI and awards were presented to each of the contributors including Bulent Kose, Jose Castro, Ph.D., Rick Pimpinella, PH.D., Yu Huang, Ph.D., Alexander Berlan, Asher Novick and Brett Lane, Ph.D.
The paper develops the theoretical background, proposes an innovative test methodology, and provides experimental validation of a revolutionary characterization method applicable to next generation Wideband multimode fiber. This work was just a portion of Panduit’s contribution to the development of Wideband MMF (for use in OM5 cable). In addition, Dr. Brett Lane serves as Chairman of the Joint Task Group in the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) in which the fiber was developed.
“This is a tremendous achievement for Panduit’s fiber research team and shows the impact of Panduit’s significant investment in our world class fiber lab,” said Panduit President and CEO Tom Donovan. “Advancements in multimode fiber are critical to the industry and are inherent in Panduit’s philosophy of developing technology for our customers which solve tomorrow’s challenges today.”
The IWCS International Cable & Connectivity Symposium is the premier venue for the new technologies in wire, cable and connectivity products, processes and applications. The IWCS Symposium Committee generates an industry leading innovation program for each year’s conference, with over 100 papers and presentation in 20 compelling sessions over three full days.
For more information about IWCS visit http://www.iwcs.org/
About Panduit
Panduit is a world-class developer and provider of leading-edge solutions that connect, manage and automate the physical infrastructure. Panduit solutions help customers integrate core business systems for a smarter, unified business foundation. Our robust partner ecosystem, global staff, and unmatched service and support make Panduit a valuable and trusted partner. For more information, visit www.panduit.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005338/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}