DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Pyrethroid Insecticide Market- Growth, Trends and Forecasts (2016 - 2021)" report to their offering.
The global pyrethroid insecticides market has been estimated at USD 4.67 Billion in 2015 and is projected to reach USD 6.45 Billion by 2021, at a CAGR of 5.2% during the forecast period from 2016 to 2021. A pyrethroid is an organic compound that are synthetic analogs of pyrethrins. These pyrethrin-like compounds are widely used against number of insects including household arthropods. These products are low in toxicity to mammals and birds, and require very low doses to kill insects.
Pyrethroid insecticide market is driven by the need to increase crop yield and efficiency. The world's population is growing, but the farmlands have been decreasing pushing farmers to increase their yields. New farming practices are adopted by farmers all over the world to increase crop yields. Genetically modified (GM) plants have helped farmers increase their yields coupled with the reduction of use in some pesticides. These factors coupled with high performance of pyrethroids against insects have led a continuous market growth for the industry. Product development, sustainable farming options and growing demand from developing regions are identified as the opportunity segments for the industry's future growth. However, issues over product labeling and popularity of bioinsecticide products may act as obstacles for market growth.
Asia-Pacific has the largest consumer base in the world. North America and Europe followed the list. The rising disposable income levels, rising population and food security have made Asia-Pacific, the region with maximum potential for growth. The emerging economies including China, India, Vietnam and Thailand are the major consumers of pyrethroid insecticides for application in various cereal and grain crops. Due to strong government control over the harmful effects of chemicals, the market in Europe would grow at a rather static pace.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Introduction
2. Research Approach & Methodology
3. Key Findings of the Study
4. Market Overview
5. Market Segmentation
6. Competitive Landscape
7. Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/4w9vsc/global_pyrethroid

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006254/en/