NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Each of Deutsche Municipal Income Trust and Deutsche Strategic Municipal Income Trust announced today a taxable short-term capital gain distribution per common share. Each Fund has both common and preferred shares outstanding. In accordance with a position taken by the Internal Revenue Service, each Fund is required to allocate a proportionate share of distributions designated as taxable to both its common and preferred shares.
Details are as follows:
Important Information
Deutsche Municipal Income Trust seeks to provide high current income exempt from federal income tax by investing in a diversified portfolio of investment-grade tax-exempt securities. Bond investments are subject to interest-rate, credit, liquidity and market risks to varying degrees. When interest rates rise, bond prices generally fall. Credit risk refers to the ability of an issuer to make timely payments of principal and interest. Investing in derivatives entails special risks relating to liquidity, leverage and credit that may reduce returns and/or increase volatility. Leverage results in additional risks and can magnify the effect of any gains or losses. Although the fund seeks income that is exempt from federal income taxes, a portion of the fund’s distributions may be subject to federal, state and local taxes, including the alternative minimum tax.
Deutsche Strategic Municipal Income Trust seeks a high level of current income exempt from federal income tax. The fund will invest at least 50 percent of its assets in investment-grade municipal securities or unrated municipal securities of comparable quality, and may invest up to 50 percent of its assets in high-yield municipal securities that are below investment grade. Bond investments are subject to interest-rate, credit, liquidity and market risks to varying degrees. When interest rates rise, bond prices generally fall. Credit risk refers to the ability of an issuer to make timely payments of principal and interest. Investing in derivatives entails special risks relating to liquidity, leverage and credit that may reduce returns and/or increase volatility. Leverage results in additional risks and can magnify the effect of any gains or losses. Although the fund seeks income that is exempt from federal income taxes, a portion of the fund’s distributions may be subject to federal, state and local taxes, including the alternative minimum tax.
Closed-end funds, unlike open-end funds, are not continuously offered. There is a one-time public offering and once issued, shares of closed-end funds are bought and sold in the open market through a stock exchange. Shares of closed-end funds frequently trade at a discount to the net asset value. The price of a fund’s shares is determined by a number of factors, several of which are beyond the control of the fund. Therefore, a fund cannot predict whether its shares will trade at, below or above net asset value.
Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the laws of such state or jurisdiction.
Deutsche Asset Management represents the asset management activities conducted by Deutsche Bank AG or any of its subsidiaries. Clients will be provided Deutsche Asset Management products or services by one or more legal entities that will be identified to clients pursuant to the contracts, agreements, offering materials or other documentation relevant to such products or services. (R-049017-1) (12/16)

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005671/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignm {vertical-align: middle !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} .bwblockalignc{margin-left: auto !important; margin-right: auto !important;} ;}