MONROVIA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
General Motors Company (GM) has named AeroVironment, Inc.’s (AVAV) EVSE-RS as the official charging station accessory for its all-new, all-electric 2017 Chevrolet Bolt EV.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006403/en/ 
Making its debut in California and Oregon late this year, the highly anticipated, all-electric Chevrolet Bolt EV features an EPA estimated range of 238 miles per charge. With a starting MSRP of $37,495, before available tax incentives, the Bolt EV offers double the range of existing EVs in the same price range.
“We selected AeroVironment due to their strong brand recognition, reputation for reliability, and decades of leadership in supporting EVs,” said Darin Gesse, Bolt EV Product Manager. “In addition, their EVSE-RS provides proven performance, making AeroVironment a great partner for Chevrolet.”
As an official accessory, AeroVironment’s EVSE-RS charging station will be labeled with its own GM part number and will be available through Chevrolet dealerships. The level 2 EVSE-RS can charge up to five times faster than standard cordsets and is easy to use, elegantly designed for indoor or outdoor operation and equipped with advanced safety features. It is rigorously tested beyond UL requirements to meet strict internal and external quality standards ensuring world class safety and reliability.
“Our broad array of EV charging solutions is helping to make EV ownership more efficient and practical, by offering convenient residential and workplace options for drivers who are looking to charge their EVs faster and more affordably. GM’s selection of our EVSE-RS is a strong validation of our approach,” said Ken Karklin, Vice President and General Manager, Efficient Energy Systems for AeroVironment. “We worked alongside GM to usher in the age of the modern EV and we collaborate once more to deliver range, reliability and certainty to a new generation of EV drivers with the launch of the game-changing Chevrolet Bolt EV.”
About AeroVironment, Inc.
AeroVironment (AVAV) provides customers with more actionable intelligence so they can proceed with certainty. Based in California, AeroVironment is a global leader in unmanned aircraft systems, tactical missile systems and electric vehicle charging and test systems, and serves militaries, government agencies, businesses and consumers. For more information visit www.avinc.com.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements in this press release may constitute “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors outside of our control, that may cause our business, strategy or actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the activities of competitors; failure of the markets in which we operate to grow; failure to expand into new markets; failure to develop new products or integrate new technology with current products; and general economic and business conditions in the United States and elsewhere in the world. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on 10-Q. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
For additional media and information, please follow us at:
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/aerovironmentincTwitter: http://www.twitter.com/aerovironmentYouTube: http://www.youtube.com/user/AeroVironmentIncGoogle+: https://plus.google.com/100557642515390130818/posts

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006403/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006403/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}