SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Quartus Engineering Incorporated, a San Diego-based engineering and manufacturing firm supporting aerospace, defense, and optical industries, has moved its corporate headquarters, offices and manufacturing space to a new facility at 9689 Towne Centre Drive.
Just a few miles from the firm’s previous headquarters, the new UTC-area facility merges three separate offices into one, while also providing expanded manufacturing and clean room space, as well as room for growth for the engineering staff.
“Our new facility nearly doubles our office space, allowing us to bring together 80 staff members who were previously spread across three San Diego locations, and giving them the opportunity to work more efficiently as a team with shared resources,” said President and CEO Doug Botos. “It also provides five times the previous clean room and manufacturing space, which we feel is needed to meet our customers’ increasing requirements. Finally, as we look toward the future, it provides additional room to grow our staff and bandwidth as our customer base expands.”
The 47,000-square-foot space includes 5,000 square feet of Class 10,000 (ISO 7) clean rooms for optical assembly, 17,000 square feet of manufacturing space for fabrication and assembly of hardware, 18,000 square feet of general office space and an additional 7,000 square feet for future expansion.
“Our expanding customer base in multiple industries has necessitated adding staff, infrastructure, and fabrication capability,” said Vice President of Sales and Marketing Jeff Frantz. “This will assure we continue to provide state of the art engineering and manufacturing services to our customers so they can meet their product development commitments.”
Operations at the new facility commenced November 21, 2016. Phone numbers remain the same.
About Quartus
Quartus Engineering, Inc. provides engineering, manufacturing, and optics services across many industries. Since its founding in 1997, Quartus has grown to more than 100 staff members in San Diego, CA and Sterling, VA. For more information, contact Quartus online at www.quartus.com, or by phone at 858-875-6042.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006396/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}