DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Cloud-Based Contact Center Market by Solution (Dialers, Reporting, and analytics), Service (Professional and Managed), Application, Deployment Model, Organization size, Industry vertical, and Region - Global Forecast to 2021" report to their offering.
The cloud-based contact center market size is estimated to grow from USD 5.43 billion in 2016 to USD 15.67 billion by 2021, at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 23.6% due to cloud compliance requirement and the need to manage disaster recovery. However, risk of information and high initial investment is the major restraint in the overall growth of the market.
The implementation of dialers is expected to grow at the highest CAGR during the forecast period. The dialers allow organizations to manage Do Not Call' lists, time zones, external table dialing and dynamic filtering, and offers deployment options so they can choose how to address regulations that prohibit auto dialers and predictive dialing. This provides the ease of utilization that the contact centers require leading to an increase in its demand.
The demand for hybrid cloud in the contact center space is expected to increase in the coming five years. The scalability and flexibility of hybrid cloud helps an enterprise to create an automated, integrated, secure, and well-managed computing environment cost-effectively. One of the reasons for the high adoption of hybrid cloud is that it bridges the gap between low-security public cloud and high-security private cloud, thus, giving the user the security of private cloud and low cost of public cloud.
North America is expected to hold the largest market share and dominate the cloud-based contact center market in 2016, due to the increasing market for analytics and high competition between the organizations to offer enhanced customer satisfaction. APAC is expected to grow at the highest rate during this forecast period. Increasing retail and distribution activities, along with growth in the BFSI sector has given scope for the cloud-based contact center market to grow in APAC.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Introduction
2 Research Methodology
3 Executive Summary
4 Premium Insights
5 Market Overview
6 Industry Trends
7 Cloud-Based Contact Center Market Analysis, By Solution
8 Cloud-Based Contact Center Market Analysis, By Service Type
9 Cloud-Based Contact Center Market Analysis, By Application
10 Cloud-Based Contact Center Market Analysis, By Deployment Model
11 Cloud-Based Contact Center Market Analysis, By Organization Size
12 Cloud-Based Contact Center Market Analysis, By Vertical
13 Geographic Analysis
14 Competitive Landscape
15 Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/rdh7zs/cloudbased

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006166/en/