NASHVILLE, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The sales performance and coaching innovator, Integrity Solutions, and the Sales Management Association are launching a new research survey to unlock specifics about what makes salespeople successful. The survey, which launched today, looks to explore sales effectiveness and the investments that companies make to improve it.
“This is an important effort to go beyond the dated belief that one-time onboarding and orientation around product and service features is all that’s required to equip a salesperson for success,” said Mike Esterday, CEO of Integrity Solutions. “We’re excited to partner with the Sales Management Association in this survey – to get at hard data around the critical issue of what truly makes a salesperson successful,” he added.
The survey addresses important areas, including product knowledge and selling skills – as well as attitudes, drive to achieve, and a salesperson’s beliefs in his or her own abilities.
The survey is available online until early January at: http://sgiz.mobi/s3/837f27b054fb
“We’ve conducted many surveys around sales training but this one is unique in its exploration of salesperson attitudes, beliefs, and achievement drive. We’ll learn how firms prioritize these alongside more traditional training topics like product knowledge and selling skills,” said Bob Kelly, Sales Management Association Chairman. “We’re confident that the findings will help organizations prioritize sales training efforts to drive stronger business results,” Kelly added.
Integrity Solutions develops innovative, practical training and learning-related solutions in sales performance, coaching and customer service. The firm has worked for the past 45 years on a global scale in more than 130 countries across the business spectrum, including healthcare, financial services, energy and utilities, and a variety of other industries.
Integrity Solutions has been named to Selling Power magazine’s 2016 list of Top 20 Sales Training Companies, a list of top companies that excel in helping sales leaders improve the performance of their sales teams.
Additionally, the firm was selected for the 2016 Sales Training Watch List by Training Industry, Inc. The prestigious ranking recognizes top sales training providers across the globe as part of Training Industry’s commitment to continuously monitor the training marketplace for the best providers and services.
More about Integrity Solutions is at www.integritysolutions.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005507/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}