RALEIGH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Red Hat, Inc. (RHT), the world’s leading provider of open source solutions, today announced that submissions are being accepted for the 11th annual Red Hat Certified Professional of the Year award.
The Red Hat Certified Professional (RHCP) of the Year award recognizes the hard work, expertise, and ingenuity of a current Red Hat Certified Professional. The award program is open to holders of a current Red Hat certification or Certificate of Expertise in eligible countries. RHCPs can nominate themselves for the award or be nominated by someone else. Judges are looking for examples of how RHCP’s have succeeded in their current job using Red Hat solutions, how they have enhanced their company or customer’s IT environments using Red Hat solutions, how they have improved their company or customer’s system performance, how they have improved system security for their company or customer using Red Hat solutions, and how they have delivered results to their organization or their customers using Red Hat solutions.
To be considered for the award, applicants must provide an essay or video submission detailing how they use their Red Hat-certified skills to deliver business impact and value to their organization. Submissions for the 2017 Red Hat Certified Professional of the Year award will be accepted through Friday, Feb. 17, 2017.
The winner will be announced and recognized at the 2017 Red Hat Summit, taking place in Boston, May 2-4, 2017. The winner will receive a complimentary trip to Red Hat Summit, including airfare, hotel accommodations and a conference pass.
Supporting QuoteRandy Russell, director of Certification, Red Hat“Red Hat Certified Professionals are recognized as consummate technical professionals. The RHCP of the Year Award gives us an opportunity to showcase the efforts of one such professional who has generated value and transformed IT within their organization while honoring the entire Red Hat certified community.”
Additional Resources
Connect with Red Hat
About Red Hat, Inc.Red Hat is the world’s leading provider of open source software solutions, using a community-powered approach to provide reliable and high-performing cloud, Linux, middleware, storage and virtualization technologies. Red Hat also offers award-winning support, training, and consulting services. As a connective hub in a global network of enterprises, partners, and open source communities, Red Hat helps create relevant, innovative technologies that liberate resources for growth and prepare customers for the future of IT. Learn more at http://www.redhat.com.
Forward-Looking StatementsCertain statements contained in this press release may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to the ability of the Company to compete effectively; the ability to deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technological innovations on a timely basis; delays or reductions in information technology spending; the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technologies and products; fluctuations in exchange rates; the effects of industry consolidation; uncertainty and adverse results in litigation and related settlements; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; the ability to meet financial and operational challenges encountered in our international operations; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company’s growth and international operations; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov), including those found therein under the captions “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic and political conditions, governmental and public policy changes and the impact of natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company’s views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company’s views as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release.
Red Hat and the Shadowman logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and other countries. Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other countries.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005912/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}