SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Wistron Corporation, one of the world’s largest ODM (Original Design Manufacturer) companies, launched a USD $20 million venture capital fund with U.S.A. Silicon Valley-based Fenox Venture Capital to access and work with the top technology companies from around the world. This partnership with Fenox VC will serve as a gateway for Wistron to access top technology startup companies through the global network of Fenox VC, as part of its goal of collaborating with world-class IT startups and giving them access to the greater Asian market.
“Finding the right global partner was a key step in our search for cutting-edge technologies that would enhance the experience of our customers,” said Simon Lin, Chairman of Wistron Corporation. “Fenox VC is an excellent partner to assist Wistron in our global outreach due to their innate understanding of the Asian business culture and unbridled access to North America, Europe, and broader Asian market.”
“We have been working with leading software and technology startups in Silicon Valley and the rest of the world, therefore, the partnership with Wistron ties in well with our expertise,” said Anis Uzzaman, General Partner and CEO of Fenox VC. “Our team is excited to be working with the Wistron team.”
Most of the top startups in U.S.A. Silicon Valley and around the world are looking for a reliable and experienced design, manufacturing, and post-sales partner in Asia. Wistron is a renowned manufacturing company that can not only address those needs, but also help startups expand their horizon in Asia through its vast network, while ensuring the protection of their intellectual property (IP). This new fund will help startups in the areas of IoT, robotics, AR/VR technologies, etc. that require hardware-software collaboration with reliable manufacturing. The partnership will work as a bridge between the U.S.A. and Asia helping the entrepreneurship community as a whole.
About Wistron
Wistron Corporation is a Fortune Global 500 company and a Technology Service Provider supplying ICT (information and communication technology) products, services, and systems to our global customers. We are devoted to increasing the value of our services through developing innovative solutions in the areas of green recycling, cloud, and display vertical integration. For more information, please visit: www.wistron.com.
About Fenox Venture Capital
Fenox Venture Capital is a Silicon Valley-based venture capital firm, which has invested in more than 85 companies globally. Investment areas include IT, Health IT, Artificial Intelligence, IoT, Robotics, Big Data, VR/AR, FinTech, and Next Generation Technologies. Fenox VC leverages its global network spanning the US, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East to support the global expansion of its portfolio companies. Read more about Fenox Venture Capital at www.fenoxvc.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005067/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}