DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Image Sensor Market (2016-2022)" report to their offering.
Technological advancements and increasing adoption of images across various applications have contributed to the growth of the image sensors market, globally. With the growing investments in R&D, sensing equipment has become relatively cost effective, compact and efficient, which is huge opportunity for the industry players. The increasing adoption of smartphones has further driven the market and would be a positive factor driving the market during the forecast period.
The growing concerns over surveillance & security in public places such as parks, public places, malls, railway stations, and terrorist activities are significantly contributing to the need for higher resolution cameras. The demand for cell phones and digital still cameras has resulted in shortage in lenses and picture sensors. Also, the dynamic nature of semiconductor business would also act as a restraint to the market growth during the forecast period.
The growing awareness in different regions about the need for driver assistance and safety offered by advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) is further driving the adoption of image sensors in the automotive sector. Consumer electronics was the major segment with highest revenue share of the image sensor market. The growing trend of dual camera mobile phones would substantially contribute to the image sensors market, thus driving the consumer electronics sector of the image sensor market.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Market Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Overview
4. Global Image Sensor Market by Type
5. Global Image Sensor Market by Application
6. Global Image Sensor Market by Region
7. Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/lltqmg/global_image

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005599/en/