SASKATOON, Saskatchewan--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CanniMed Therapeutics Inc.:
NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION TO U.S. NEWS WIRE SERVICES OR DISSEMINATION IN THE UNITED STATES.
CanniMed Therapeutics Inc. (“CMED” or the “Company”), a leading plant biopharmaceutical company specializing in the production of pharmaceutical-grade cannabis, announced today that it has filed an amended and restated preliminary prospectus in respect of its initial public offering of common shares (“Common Shares”) with the securities regulatory authorities in each of the provinces of Canada, except Quebec (the “Offering”), which amends and restates the preliminary prospectus dated November 23, 2016. The amended and restated preliminary prospectus states that the Company proposes to sell Common Shares for aggregate gross proceeds to the Company of approximately C$50,000,000. The Offering is being distributed by a syndicate of underwriters led by AltaCorp Capital Inc. and including Canaccord Genuity Corp., Clarus Securities Inc., Mackie Research Capital Corporation and Haywood Securities Inc. A copy of the amended and restated preliminary prospectus is available on SEDAR (www.sedar.com).
Completion of the Offering is subject to, and conditional upon, the receipt of all necessary approvals, including regulatory approvals.
The amended and restated preliminary prospectus has not yet become final for the purposes of the sale of the securities and information contained in the amended and restated preliminary prospectus may not be complete and may have to be amended. There will not be any sale or any acceptance of an offer to buy the securities until a receipt for the final prospectus has been issued.
No securities regulatory authority has either approved or disapproved of the contents of this news release. The Common Shares have not been, nor will they be, registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States, or to or for the account or benefit of any person in the United States, absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any Common Shares in the United States, or in any other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
About CanniMed Therapeutics Inc.
The Company is a Canadian-based, international plant biopharmaceutical company and a leader in the Canadian medical cannabis industry, with 15 years’ of pharmaceutical cannabis cultivation experience, state-of-the-art, GMP-compliant production process, including 281 points of quality control, and world class research and development platforms with a wide range of pharmaceutical-grade cannabis products. In addition, the Company has an active plant biotechnology research and product development program focused on the production of plant-based materials for pharmaceutical, agricultural and environmental applications.
CanniMed Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, was the first producer to be licensed under the Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations, the predecessor to the current Access to Cannabis for Medical Purposes Regulations.
Prairie Plant Systems Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, was the sole supplier to Health Canada under the former medical marijuana system for 13 years, and has been producing safe and consistent medical marijuana for thousands of Canadian patients, with no incident of diversion.
Forward Looking Statement
This press release contains “forward-looking information” within the meaning of Canadian securities laws, which may include, but are not limited to statements relating to the Company’s proposed initial public offering and expectations that applicable regulatory approvals will be obtained. Such forward-looking information reflects the Company’s views with respect to future events and is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those set out in the amended and restated preliminary prospectus dated December 6, 2016 and the risk that the Offering may not be completed. The Company does not undertake to update forward-looking statements or forward-looking information, except as required by law.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006482/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}