ROLLING MEADOWS, Ill. & CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Plumbing Manufacturers International (PMI) and the Alliance for Water Efficiency (AWE) today announced a joint partnership on a study to determine potential water savings that could be achieved by replacing older, inefficient toilets with high-efficiency models.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005189/en/ 
The “Saturation Study of Non-Efficient Water Closets in Key States” will focus on Arizona, California, Colorado, Georgia and Texas – all states which have recently experienced serious water shortages. The study will determine the number of non-efficient toilets that remain within the installed residential base of plumbing fixtures as well as determine the potential water savings that could be achieved through replacement of those non-efficient models.
“This study is part of PMI’s and AWE’s ongoing advocacy efforts to examine how improved water efficiency can bring practical solutions to states and regions with water supply issues,” said Barbara C. Higgens, PMI CEO/Executive Director.
“We are pleased to partner with PMI on this important research project, which we hope will highlight the remaining number of inefficient toilets still in use in these five critically water-short states and how much water can be saved by their replacement,” said Mary Ann Dickinson, AWE’s President and CEO.
The study will be completed by the end of February 2017 and will be posted on the PMI and AWE websites.
About PMI
Plumbing Manufacturers International is the voluntary, not-for-profit international industry association of manufacturers of plumbing products, serving as the Voice of the Plumbing Industry. Member companies produce 90 percent of the nation’s plumbing products. As part of its mission, PMI advocates for plumbing product performance and innovation contributing to water savings, sustainability, public health and safety, and consumer satisfaction. For more information on PMI or its conferences, contact the organization at 1921 Rohlwing Road, Unit G, Rolling Meadows, IL, 60008; tel.: 847-481-5500; fax: 847- 481-5501. www.safeplumbing.org.
About AWE
The Alliance for Water Efficiency (AWE) is a North American 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization dedicated to the sustainable and efficient use of water. Based in Chicago, AWE works with nearly 400 water utilities, water conservation professionals in business and industry, planners, regulators, and consumers. As the leading voice for water efficiency, AWE’s platform brings together innovative technical resources to facilitate adoption of water conservation programs, cutting-edge research to address pressing challenges, and a collaborative dialogue amongst stakeholders to further adoption of water conservation programs. http://www.allianceforwaterefficiency.org

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005189/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005189/en/