NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Link to Fitch Ratings' Report: 2017 Outlook: U.S. Healthcare (Fundamental Stability Despite Regulatory Uncertainty)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/890582
A low risk of deteriorating fundamentals but high levels of event risk driven by political and regulatory uncertainty are driving the outlook for the US healthcare sector in 2017, according to Fitch Ratings. Healthcare is facing some specific issues under a Trump administration, including the future of the ACA. And debate around drug pricing will become a longer term issue despite the current focus on the ACA.
Uncertainty and turmoil have been persistent throughout the ACA's nearly seven-year history, and the industry is in for more of the same in 2017. However, segments of the healthcare industry benefiting from the ACA will lobby hard to keep the insurance expansion in place. Healthcare providers, specifically acute care hospital companies, have the most to lose if the ACA insurance expansion is gutted because it has resulted in more paying customers for the sector.
About 20 million Americans have health insurance under the ACA, including roughly 10 million through expanded state Medicaid programs and another 10 million in the public health insurance marketplaces. About 85% of exchange plan enrollees receive a financial subsidy to make insurance more affordable. A central focus of President-elect Trump's campaign was repeal of the ACA, but that will prove difficult in practice because Republicans do not have a filibuster proof 60 seats in the Senate, and many parts of the law are popular with the public.
Whatever healthcare policy is ultimately pursued by the Trump administration, development of the healthcare value ecosystem will continue in 2017 as patients and insurers seek ways to reduce spending. Consumers are struggling to bear an increasing share of healthcare costs in light of growth in insurance products like high deductible health plans. During 2016, headlines about the growing financial burden of pharmaceutical products highlighted this issue.
There are two separate issues involved in the drug pricing debate: drug manufacturers taking advantage of supply dislocations to increase prices on established products, and truly innovative new drugs being launched with high sticker prices. While not illegal, the former is not a defensible business model in the long term. The latter is an entirely different issue. Unless there is a significant regulatory change that limits the pricing power of drug companies, drugs that truly provide a superior benefit in terms of efficacy and quality of life improvements will continue to command pricing power.
Heading into 2017, innovative pharma pipelines are full of cutting edge new therapies, and pricing debates on launch will echo those of the hepatitis C and cholesterol-lowering PCSK-9 drugs. At the same time, generic and specialty pharmaceutical companies are taking a hit on the generic pricing issue. Valeant's new management team recently cut guidance a third time. Bowing to public pressure, Mylan introduced a generic version of the high priced EpiPen.
Ultimately, fundamentals in healthcare are solid relative to some other corporate sectors, and Fitch forecasts mid-single digit organic EBITDA growth for most healthcare companies in 2017. Still, headline risk will be a persistent backdrop.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com.
The above article originally appeared as a post on the Fitch Wire credit market commentary page. The original article can be accessed at www.fitchratings.com. All opinions expressed are those of Fitch Ratings.
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005918/en/