AMSTERDAM & STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
TomTom (TOM2) and Pitney Bowes (NYSE:PBI) today announce an expansion of their partnership. TomTom’s global location content is assisting Pitney Bowes to strengthen its position as the preferred single-source provider of enterprise-grade location intelligence solutions worldwide.
This announcement bolsters the long-standing partnership between TomTom and Pitney Bowes, and demonstrates both companies’ commitment to serving the Enterprise GIS market.
“When we think about location intelligence, we are guided by a powerful motto: ‘Locate success’,” states Bob Guidotti, Pitney Bowes’ President of Software Solutions. “Our clients trust our software solutions and data to help them make informed business decisions, take advantage of new location-based marketing opportunities and identify and manage previously unseen risks.”
The sophisticated Location Intelligence Suite of software solutions from Pitney Bowes is enhanced with the accuracy and freshness of TomTom’s international map content and diverse layers of location-based data.
Businesses across all industries are looking to extract valuable insights from data to deliver a clear view of customers, including who they are and what they want, no matter where they are located. The mapping and location technologies from Pitney Bowes help businesses better communicate with their customers, create more targeted promotions and pursue new cross-selling opportunities.
“Being selected by Pitney Bowes reaffirms that TomTom is the industry standard for global maps and location data used in enterprise-grade GIS applications,” says Anders Truelsen, Managing Director of TomTom’s Licensing Business Unit.
“We are extremely proud to partner with Pitney Bowes and support them as they harness the full potential of our mapping services and data: including road networks, address points, postal codes, administrative boundaries and, with this latest agreement, additional data-driven insights from TomTom’s best-in-class Traffic services.”
TomTom data accuracy is critical to the performance of the location intelligence solutions of Pitney Bowes, particularly for industries such as Telecommunications looking to optimize mobile network performance; Insurance for precisely locating assets to identify potential risks; and State and Local Government to efficiently allocate and manage government assets and services.
Going beyond these core offerings, Pitney Bowes is rolling out a suite of new vertical solutions addressing common business challenges including fraud management, compliance and customer communication. With this accelerated partnership, TomTom and Pitney Bowes will jointly collaborate to redefine GIS products and location intelligence services worldwide.
-Ends-
About TomTom
At TomTom (TOM2) our mission is to make technology so easy to use, that everyone can benefit from it. We created easy to use navigation devices, helping millions of people to get where they want to be. Today, we continue to simplify the complex, making technology more accessible for everyone. We have four customer facing business units: Consumer, Telematics, Automotive and Licensing.
We make easy to use navigation devices, sport watches and action cameras for consumers. We enable businesses with vehicles to more easily manage and improve fleet efficiency whilst increasing overall business performance with our Telematics solutions. We also offer a world leading real-time map platform that is powering innovative location based services and helping to make automated driving a reality for the automotive industry. Founded in 1991 and headquartered in Amsterdam, we have over 4,600 employees and sell our products worldwide.
About Pitney Bowes
Pitney Bowes (PBI) is a global technology company powering billions of transactions – physical and digital – in the connected and borderless world of commerce. Clients around the world, including 90 percent of the Fortune 500, rely on products, solutions and services from Pitney Bowes in the areas of customer information management, location intelligence, customer engagement, shipping, mailing, and global ecommerce. And with the innovative Pitney Bowes Commerce Cloud, clients can access the broad range of Pitney Bowes solutions, analytics, and APIs to drive commerce. For additional information visit Pitney Bowes, the Craftsmen of Commerce, at www.pitneybowes.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006196/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}