PHOENIX--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Redirect Health, which helps employers and their brokers build health care plans using a partial self-insurance model, is proud to announce the addition of key directors and enrollment managers who will help drive the organization’s local and national expansion.
With a projected 200 percent increase in revenue from 2015 to 2016, Redirect Health Co-Founder and Chairman of the Board David Berg says new team members will help the company continue its upward trajectory. “It’s very exciting to be in the midst of this growth phase. We’re developing a team and a culture that’s committed to putting our clients at the center of the health care system, a departure from traditional health care centered on bureaucracy and large hospital systems. Our strategy is so unique, we’re even able to help our clients use health care as a competitive advantage to recruit and retain the best talent.”
Recent managerial additions include:
Further, Redirect Health has boosted its team of enrollment managers, each designated to work with select industries with large entry-level workforces – a strong niche for the company, says Berg.
Employers taking advantage of Redirect Health’s health care plans range in size from two employees to more than 500. Plans can be customized to fit the needs of specific workforces, include 24/7 support and scheduling, telehealth options, and $0 copay/$0 deductible for unlimited primary, injury and chiropractic care.
“The self-insurance model has been used by big businesses for decades, but small and mid-sized companies are just now taking advantage of the benefits,” said Berg. “Redirect Health’s self-funded plans and state-of-the-art care delivery processes make this concept possible and feasible.”
Redirect Health’s plans start at $105 monthly per employee. The employer can cover that cost or pass the full expense to the employee, or the cost can be shared. Costs are kept low without sacrificing quality because the company “redirects” a patient’s care through the most efficient, cost-effective route. For instance, certain procedures performed at a hospital can be redirected to a nearby clinic for a small fraction of the cost.
Employers and brokers nationwide who are interested in learning more about Redirect Health can connect at redirecthealth.com, (888) 995-4945 or nextsteps@redirecthealth.com.
About Redirect Health
Founded in 2013, Redirect Health helps entrepreneurial businesses and their brokers build affordable health care plans using a self-insurance model. All solutions comply with the Affordable Care Act, reduce waste and administration costs associated with many traditional health insurance plans, and enhance the employee’s health care experience. The company uses a process that quickly identifies the most cost-efficient route to address healthcare needs, enabling employers to significantly cut costs, save time and reinvest their savings back into their businesses. More at redirecthealth.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006004/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}