NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
BDO Consulting, a division of BDO USA, LLP, one of the nation’s leading professional services organizations, today announced that it has entered into a strategic agreement with Brainspace, the industry leader in text analytics for e-discovery and investigations, and the developer of Discovery 5.
“Analytics is the future of e-discovery,” said George Socha, co-founder of the Electronic Discovery Reference Model (EDRM) and Managing Director in BDO Consulting’s Forensic Technology Services practice. “While the underlying e-discovery framework remains relatively unchanged, the industry has clearly evolved with the explosion of data and growth of interconnected global regulatory regimes. Traditional methods simply fall short.”
Brainspace’s patented platform Discovery 5 adds large-scale, dynamic machine learning and intuitive, multidimensional analysis to BDO’s global forensic toolkit and intelligent analytics capabilities to produce better results in less time and at a lower cost. Discovery 5’s accelerated concept clustering and semantic search technologies enable clients to quickly navigate large, complex datasets and identify the most relevant information—including adjacent material that is often overlooked using more traditional technologies. BDO then helps organizations interpret and identify critical data trends to determine the best approach to yield a strong business solution.
“Brainspace’s Discovery 5 platform enhances BDO’s existing capabilities and experience, allowing us to provide clients with the right combination of technology, analytics and artificial intelligence to solve complex e-discovery challenges,” said Jenna Aira-Ventrella, Managing Director in BDO Consulting's Forensic Technology Services practice. “Intelligent analytics presents data in a more digestible format, enabling clients to make more strategic decisions than were previously available using traditional linear techniques.”
"We are seeing a growing number of global e-discovery and investigative matters at a time when international data privacy requirements have never been more demanding,” said BDO UK Partner Kaley Crossthwaite. “BDO applies a consistent and collaborative approach to serving international clients across the BDO network, and adding Discovery 5 to our toolkit allows us to enhance our robust capabilities, which include multilingual support and mobile appliances.”
Whether performing fraud investigations, supporting litigation, or conducting due diligence or risk assessments, BDO works with clients to develop customized approaches to their data challenges by leveraging sophisticated technologies and techniques to drive results. With a global network spanning more than 150 countries, BDO’s forensic technology footprint and toolkits — including Discovery 5 — afford clients a consistent methodology for navigating multi-jurisdictional and cross-border issues.
"There has been a dramatic shift toward analytics in the e-discovery and investigations field,” said Dave Copps, Brainspace Founder and CEO. “Clients need best-in-class machine learning and analytics technology to produce the answers they need, but it isn’t as simple as checking the box or pressing a button. Exceptional results require real-world insight and creative problem solving. Together, BDO and Brainspace bring clients our combined experience and technical capabilities in one powerful solution.”
About BDO Consulting
BDO Consulting, a division of BDO USA, LLP, provides clients with Financial Advisory, Business Advisory and Technology Services in the U.S. and around the world, leveraging BDO’s global network of more than 60,000 professionals. Having a depth of industry expertise, we provide rapid, strategic guidance in the most challenging of environments to achieve exceptional client service. For more information, please visit www.bdo.com.
About BDO
BDO is the brand name for BDO USA, LLP, a U.S. professional services firm providing assurance, tax, advisory and consulting services to a wide range of publicly traded and privately held companies. For more than 100 years, BDO has provided quality service through the active involvement of experienced and committed professionals. The firm serves clients through more than 60 offices and over 500 independent alliance firm locations nationwide. As an independent Member Firm of BDO International Limited, BDO serves multi-national clients through a global network of 1,408 offices in 154 countries.
BDO USA, LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership, is the U.S. member of BDO International Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, and forms part of the international BDO network of independent member firms. BDO is the brand name for the BDO network and for each of the BDO Member Firms. For more information please visit: www.bdo.com.
About Brainspace Corporation
Brainspace Corporation is a pioneer and recognized leader in helping enterprise clients derive meaning, gain insights and identify human connections in unstructured data. Our unique solutions utilize our patented Brainspace platform and are leading the industry in text analytics, accelerating institutional learning and reinventing how organizations exchange knowledge and expertise. Our customers include the Fortune 500, leading consulting firms, legal service providers, and government agencies.
For more information on Brainspace, visit the company's website at http://brainspace.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005406/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}