Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata said the central bank hasn’t shifted its focus away from expanding the monetary base as it seeks to reach its inflation target.
Iwata stressed that the BOJ will continue its large-scale asset purchases after introducing a new policy framework that targets interest rates.
“I would like to emphasize that the bank will continue expanding the monetary base in the future under the new policy framework,’’ Iwata told local business leaders in Nagasaki on Wednesday. “Some argue that the bank’s policy focus has shifted from quantity to interest rates under the new policy framework, but such an understanding is inappropriate.’’
Iwata’s remarks reflect concern among some at the BOJ that market participants have concluded that the central bank is effectively done expanding asset purchases under its quantitative easing program. Some BOJ watchers, including Deutsche Bank AG economists, have said the BOJ may begin to taper its buying of Japanese government bonds as soon as next year as it runs into the practical limits of those purchases.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Slams Boeing Air Force One With ‘Cancel Order!’ Tweet
The BOJ said in September it would adjust the volume of its asset purchases as necessary in the short term to control the yield curve, while increasing the monetary base at more or less the same pace of around 80 trillion yen ($701 billion) annually. It set a target of around zero percent for the 10-year Japanese government bond, as well as a rate of -0.1 on a portion of bank reserves. Asset purchases, especially of JGBs, had been the core of its easing framework.
Some economists viewed the policy shift as a tacit defeat for reflationists in Japan.
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has said the BOJ will expand the monetary base until inflation rises above 2 percent. Lowering the negative rate further and targeting bond yields would be main options for further stimulus, he has said.
More from Bloomberg.com: Chicago Faces Political Power Outage as Trump Succeeds Obama
Iwata is a staunch reflationist. He joined the BOJ board with Kuroda in March 2013, calling for the BOJ to pump cash into the economy and predicting the 2 percent inflation target would be reached within two years. The goal remains distant, with core consumer prices falling 0.4 percent in October from a year earlier.
“There is no room for doubt that this policy was effective in overcoming deflation,’’ Iwata said Wednesday. “However, it is true that the price stability target of 2 percent has not been achieved yet, unfortunately, despite the unprecedented large-scale monetary easing.”
More from Bloomberg.com: SoftBank CEO Tells Trump He’ll Invest $50 Billion in Startup
The BOJ will hold a next policy meeting Dec. 19-20.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Bank of Japan’s Iwata Says No Shift Away From Asset Purchases on bloomberg.com