IRVING, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Miraca Life Sciences, the largest U.S. independent anatomic pathology lab, has expanded its InformTx™ therapeutic drug monitoring service for drugs that treat inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) with the addition of Stelara (ustekinumab).
Miraca Life Sciences continues to perform therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) for Remicade® (infliximab), Humira® (adalimumab), Cimzia® (Certolizumab pegol) and Entyvio® (vedolizumab). Since launching in June this year, the company’s InformTx TDM service is the first time that TDM has been available in the United States for Cimzia and Entyvio.
Unique for TDM in the United States, the InformTx report provides clinicians with quantitative test results, historical test result data, and guidance from the most up-to-date peer-reviewed scientific literature. Miraca Life Sciences uses laboratory-validated ELISA technology for InformTx TDM, and testing results are reported within five days.
“Increasing the number of drugs which we can test with our InformTx therapeutic drug monitoring allows us to provide critical information to help guide therapy for even more gastroenterologists and their patients,” said Richard Lash, MD, Chief Medical Officer and Executive Vice President of Operations for Miraca Life Sciences. “We plan to add more biologics to our InformTx testing service over time.”
Why Therapeutic Drug Monitoring?
Clinicians choose therapeutic drug monitoring for their patients because individual response to biologic drugs varies greatly. Factors influencing individual patient response to biologic therapy include systemic inflammation, other drug therapies, pharmacogenetic factors, disease phenotype, body mass, immunogenicity, immunomodulators, and the presence of anti-drug antibodies. Variability by patients leads to four patient types: responders, initial responders, partial responders, and non-responders. InformTx enables clinicians to manage all patient types, across five different biologic drugs used to treat IBD.
About Miraca Life Sciences
Miraca Life Sciences provides proven high-quality anatomic and clinical pathology services, focusing on the fields of dermatology, hematology, gastroenterology, urology, and breast health. The company’s team of nearly 90 distinguished subspecialist pathologists utilizes state-of-the-art laboratories to serve more than 5,500 patients every day. Miraca Life Sciences’ difference is based on consensus-based medicine (including comprehensive sub-subspecialization, unified terminology and criteria, daily consensus conferences, extensive educational activities), rigorous quality assurance, active clinical research, innovation in testing, technological advancements, and health IT consulting services for clinician clients. Headquartered in Irving, Texas, Miraca Life Sciences is a subsidiary of Miraca Holdings Inc., one of Japan’s largest clinical diagnostics and laboratory testing service providers. For more information, visit www.MiracaLifeSciences.com.
Stelara and Remicade are registered trademarks of Janssen Biotech, Inc. Humira is a registered trademark of AbbVie Inc. Cimzia is a registered trademark of UCB. Entyvio is a registered trademark of Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006352/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}