DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Herbal Supplements Market - Global Forecast to 2022" report to their offering.
The herbal supplements market is projected to reach USD 86.74 billion by 2022 at a CAGR of 6.8% from 2016 to 2022. The market is driven by factors such as increase in ageing population, growing female buyers for dietary supplements, use of herbal products by young demography, and increasing consumer awareness for preventive healthcare measures.
Herbal supplements are heavily used in the pharmaceutical industry. European herbal medicine ingredients have a promising market in countries, such as U.S., Russia, and Japan. This is due to consumer preference regarding the quality of European herbal medicines, especially German and Swiss production. The Latin American and Asia-Pacific regions are promising markets for the application of herbal supplements in the pharmaceutical industry due to increased research & development activities, and consumer acceptance towards herbal remedies.
Europe is the largest market for herbal supplements. Growing awareness about dietary supplements in the region fuels the growth of the herbal supplements market. In this region, Germany leads the market owing to the high consumption of dietary supplements in the country, which provides considerable potential for the growth of herbal supplements as well.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1 Introduction
2 Research Methodology
3 Executive Summary
4 Premium Insights
5 Market Overview
6 Herbal Supplements Market, by Source
7 Herbal Supplements Market, by Application
8 Herbal Supplements Market, by Function
9 Herbal Supplements Market, by Form
10 Regulatory Framework
11 Herbal Supplements Market, by Region
12 Competitive Landscape
13 Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/gzlxkb/herbal

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005873/en/