NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings expects to rate Ford Credit Floorplan Master Owner Trust A (FCFMOT) series 2016-5 as follows:
--$750,000,000 class A-1/A-2 at 'AAAsf (EXP)'; Outlook Stable;
--$34,314,000 class B at 'AAsf (EXP); Outlook Stable;
--$49,020,000 class C NR;
--$29,412,000 class D NR.
Classes A-1 and A-2 will be sized according to investor demand.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Consistent Receivables Quality: Over 90% of the trust receivables are originated from credit lines made by Ford Credit to finance new vehicle inventory. Dealer risk ratings have been stable and trending upward over the past five years. The trust's original equipment manufacturer (OEM), make and geographic concentrations are also consistent with historical levels.
Strong Dealer Network: Based on dealer financial metrics and internal dealer risk ratings, the financial health of Ford Credit's dealer network is currently strong, with healthy absorption rates and high operating income levels. Dealer defaults have been minimal.
Strong Trust Performance: FCFMOT continues to experience stable trends performance thus far in 2016, despite slowing sales and rising inventory levels. The trust's monthly payment rates (MPRs) and aging distributions have both deteriorated slightly but remain at healthy levels.
Limits Mitigate Overexposure: Concentration limits for individual dealers, vehicle types, OEMs and segments help to ensure the trust's receivables remain both consistent and diverse.
Sufficient Credit Enhancement: Initial credit enhancement (CE) for the class A notes is 24.38% (of the pool), consisting of subordination, an available subordinate amount and a cash reserve. Loss coverage provided by the structure is in excess of Fitch's expected net loss assumptions. Structural features and various triggers also help to mitigate dealer default risk and OEM bankruptcy.
Consistent Origination and Servicing: Ford Credit demonstrates adequate abilities as sponsor, originator and servicer as evidenced by the historical performance of FCFMOT. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) is the backup servicer for this series, consistent with prior series.
Legal Structure Integrity: The legal structure of the transaction provides that a bankruptcy of Ford Credit would not impair the timeliness of payments on the securities.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
To conduct rating sensitivity for the issued notes, under a category B Dealer Floorplan platform, Fitch assumes portfolio default levels at 10%, 25%, and 40%, and under two recovery-level scenarios of 50% and 30%. Fitch modelled this series with the assumption that the above defaults have occurred and recoveries were stressed accordingly, reflecting asset performance in a stressed environment. Remaining expected loss levels were compared with the stressed loss assumption grid commensurate with various rating levels.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10
No third-party due diligence was provided or reviewed in relation to this rating action.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Interest Rate Stresses in Structured Finance Transactions and Covered Bonds (pub. 26 Oct 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/888492
Global Rating Criteria for Dealer Floorplan ABS (pub. 05 May 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/880077
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
Related Research
Ford Credit Floorplan Master Owner Trust A, Series 2016-5 (US ABS)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/891357
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Formhttps://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015641
Solicitation Statushttps://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015641
Endorsement Policyhttps://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third-party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005787/en/