ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Consumer Technology Association (CTA)™ recently was named one of the 2017 Best Places to Work in Virginia by Virginia Business and Best Companies Group. This is the seventh consecutive year CTA has been honored by the program, which recognizes the 100 best places of employment in Virginia benefiting the state’s economy, its workforce and businesses.
“We strive to give our employees an open and welcoming environment that promotes a healthy work-life balance,” said Gary Shapiro, president and CEO, Consumer Technology Association. “We are honored to again receive this recognition by Virginia Business and Best Companies Group. We are committed to keeping our staff happy, healthy and motivated. This commitment helps us attract and retain the best and brightest as we continue our mission to grow the consumer technology industry and promote innovation.”
CTA provides innovative and supportive family-friendly benefits, including:
The final rankings of the 2017 Best Places to Work in Virginia will be announced at an awards luncheon on Feb. 2, 2017 at the Williamsburg Lodge in Williamsburg, VA. For more information on the Best Places to Work in Virginia program, visit www.BestPlacesToWorkVA.com.
The Consumer Technology Association’s awards and accolades include being honored in 2014, 2015 and 2016 by The Washington Post as a Top Workplace and as one of the Best Workplaces for Commuters for the last four years running. CTA was a 2015 winner in the Washington SmartCEO’s Healthiest Company Awards for it demonstrated commitment to employees through health and wellness programs. The Northern Virginia Family Services (NVFS) selected CTA as a 2016 CARE (Companies As Responsive Employers) Award winner for the seventh consecutive year.
For more information about CTA’s corporate culture, leadership, benefits and career opportunities, visit CTA.tech.
About Consumer Technology Association:
Consumer Technology Association (CTA)TM, is the trade association representing the $287 billion U.S. consumer technology industry. More than 2,200 companies – 80 percent are small businesses and startups; others are among the world’s best known brands – enjoy the benefits of CTA membership including policy advocacy, market research, technical education, industry promotion, standards development and the fostering of business and strategic relationships. The Consumer Technology Association also owns and produces CES® – the world’s gathering place for all who thrive on the business of consumer technologies. Profits from CES are reinvested into CTA’s industry services.
UPCOMING EVENTS

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006006/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}