NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Rosen Law Firm, a global investor rights law firm, reminds purchasers of StoneMor Partners L.P. securities (STON) from January 19, 2012 through October 27, 2016, inclusive (the “Class Period”) of the important January 20, 2017 lead plaintiff deadline in the class action. The lawsuit seeks to recover damages for StoneMor investors under the federal securities laws.
To join the StoneMor class action, go to http://rosenlegal.com/cases-1004.html or call Phillip Kim, Esq. or Kevin Chan, Esq. toll-free at 866-767-3653 or email pkim@rosenlegal.com or kchan@rosenlegal.com for information on the class action.
NO CLASS HAS YET BEEN CERTIFIED IN THE ABOVE ACTION. UNTIL A CLASS IS CERTIFIED, YOU ARE NOT REPRESENTED BY COUNSEL UNLESS YOU RETAIN ONE. YOU MAY ALSO REMAIN AN ABSENT CLASS MEMBER AND DO NOTHING AT THIS POINT. YOU MAY RETAIN COUNSEL OF YOUR CHOICE.
According to the Complaint, StoneMor made false and misleading statements and/or failed to disclose during the Class Period that: (1) that StoneMor’s reported non-GAAP financial metrics were materially misleading and concealed the truth about the Company’s actual financial condition; and (2) the primary purpose of StoneMor’s regular debt and equity offerings were to pay distributions to unitholders rather than to pay down indebtedness under StoneMor’s revolving credit facility as publicly stated. As a result, StoneMor’s statements about its business, operations, and prospects, were false and misleading and/or lacked a reasonable basis at all relevant times. When the true details entered the market, the lawsuit claims that investors suffered damages.
A class action lawsuit has already been filed. If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you must move the Court no later than January 20, 2017. A lead plaintiff is a representative party acting on behalf of other class members in directing the litigation. If you wish to join the litigation, go to http://rosenlegal.com/cases-1004.html or to discuss your rights or interests regarding this class action, please contact Phillip Kim, Esq. or Kevin Chan, Esq. of Rosen Law Firm toll free at 866-767-3653 or via e-mail at pkim@rosenlegal.com or kchan@rosenlegal.com. Attorney Advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome.
Rosen Law Firm represents investors throughout the globe, concentrating its practice in securities class actions and shareholder derivative litigation.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006495/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}