CAMPBELL, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Centric Software has been named as one of the world’s top 100 private companies, according to the 2016 Red Herring Top 100 Global list. Centric Software is the leading product lifecycle management (PLM) solution for fashion, retail, footwear, luxury, outdoor and consumer goods companies.
Red Herring’s annual list recognizes the leading private companies from North America, Europe and Asia, celebrating business innovations and technologies. It has become a mark of distinction for identifying promising companies and entrepreneurs.
“Choosing the companies with the strongest potential was by no means a small feat,” said Alex Vieux, publisher and CEO of Red Herring. “After rigorous contemplation and discussion, we narrowed our list down from hundreds of candidates from across the globe to the Top 100 Winners. We believe Centric Software embodies the vision, drive and innovation that define a successful entrepreneurial venture. Centric Software should be proud of its accomplishment.”
Red Herring’s editorial staff evaluates companies on both quantitative and qualitative criteria, including financial performance, technology innovation, management quality, strategy and market penetration. This is complemented by a review of the track records and standing of startups relative to their peers, allowing Red Herring to see past the “buzz” and make the list a valuable instrument of discovery and advocacy for the most promising new business models from around the world.
Red Herring’s accolade comes hot on the heels of another award for Centric. Earlier this month, the PLM company’s leadership in the market was recognized with the presentation of Frost & Sullivan’s 2016 Global Customer Value Leadership Award. Centric was also named on the Red Herring Top 100 Global list in 2013 and 2015, making this its third year on the prestigious list.
Chris Groves, President and CEO of Centric Software, says, “We are delighted that Red Herring has recognized Centric’s strong customer focus and unique product vision. Being named among the world’s top 100 companies for the third time is a testament to the entire Centric team and to our commitment to transforming consumer product lifecycles with innovative software that helps customers drive massive product variety and relentless speed to market.”
Centric Software, Inc. (www.centricsoftware.com)
From its headquarters in Silicon Valley and offices in trend capitals around the world, Centric Software builds technologies for the most prestigious names in fashion, retail, footwear, luxury, outdoor and consumer goods. Its flagship product lifecycle management (PLM) platform, Centric 8, delivers enterprise-class merchandise planning, product development, sourcing, business planning, quality and collection management functionality tailored for fast-moving consumer industries. Centric SMB packages extended PLM including innovative technology and key industry learnings tailored for small businesses.
Centric Software has received multiple industry awards, including the Frost & Sullivan Global Product Differentiation Excellence Award in Retail, Fashion and Apparel PLM in 2016 and Frost & Sullivan’s Global Retail, Fashion and Apparel PLM Product Differentiation Excellence Award in 2012. Red Herring named Centric to its Top 100 Global list in 2013, 2015 and 2016.
Centric is a registered trademark of Centric Software. All other brands and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Copyright 2016, Centric Software, Inc. All rights reserved.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005382/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}