BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Putnam Investments today announced the appointments of Samuel Cox and Kathryn B. Lakin as Co-Directors of Equity Research, roles in which they will directly oversee the work of nearly 35 analysts who cover every major industry, providing critical fundamental research and analysis for the firm’s broader equity platform. Cox and Lakin will report to Aaron M. Cooper, Chief Investment Officer - Equities, who previously served as Director of Global Equity Research.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006082/en/ 
“As a firm that is highly committed to delivering active management to the marketplace, equity research remains a key engine in finding new and different sources of investment opportunity,” said Cooper. “We are pleased to have Kate and Sam, talented leaders with solid equity research experience, piloting this important function for our organization.”
Cooper indicated that one of the distinguishing features of Putnam’s research structure is that a number of research analysts at the firm also serve as portfolio managers, bringing deep sector expertise to bear in an array of mutual fund and institutional strategies for clients.
Cox has been an analyst in Global Equity Research at Putnam, focusing on the U.S. health care sector. In addition, he serves as a portfolio manager of Putnam Global Health Care Fund and Putnam Global Sector Fund – and will join Putnam Research Fund team. He will retain his analyst and portfolio management responsibilities in his new position.
Prior to joining Putnam in 2012, Cox was an Equity Analyst at Pyramis Global Advisors. Earlier, he held positions with the Rock Creek Group and Cambridge Associates. Cox holds a B.A. degree in Politics, Philosophy, Economics and Urban Studies from the University of Pennsylvania and an MBA from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of Management.
Previously, Lakin was Assistant Director of Global Equity Research at Putnam. She has served as a portfolio manager of Putnam Research Fund since December 2014, a responsibility that will continue. In addition, Lakin will join the portfolio management team of Putnam Global Sector Fund. In recent years, Lakin has also managed a group of analysts and investment associates, as well as the Equity Associate and MBA internship programs. Prior, she was an analyst in the U.S. Large Cap Equity Research group, covering consumer staples.
Lakin joined Putnam in 2012 from Fidelity Investments, where she held positions in Equity Research. She received a B.A. degree in psychology from Wellesley College and is an MBA candidate in asset management at the Yale School of Management.
About Putnam Investments
Founded in 1937, Putnam Investments is a global money management firm with over 75 years of investment experience. At the end of October 2016, Putnam had $151 billion in assets under management. Putnam has offices in Boston, London, Frankfurt, Tokyo, Singapore and Sydney. For more information, visit putnam.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006082/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006082/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}