AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the 'A-' rating on the following bonds of Denver West Metropolitan District, CO:
--$51.8 million in outstanding general obligation (GO) bonds.
Fitch has also withdrawn the district's Issuer Default Rating (IDR) due to a lack of operating risk.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The bonds are payable from an unlimited ad valorem tax levied against all taxable property within the district.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The district's revenue base is narrow with stagnant growth prospects. Operations are minimal, reflecting the limited purpose of the district which was formed for the primary purpose of financing infrastructure improvements. The liability burden is high though remaining capital needs are limited.
Economic Resource Base
The district is located primarily in the city of Lakewood, approximately 10 miles west of downtown Denver. The district encompasses approximately 516 acres and serves a predominantly commercial tax base with a modest residential population of about 1,100.
Dedicated Revenue Stream
Growth prospects for tax revenues are stagnant absent policy action and the tax base is concentrated. However, the district's debt service tax rate is unlimited, providing significant credit strength. The unlimited nature of the tax provides significant cushion against potential tax base decline and helps offset concern about tax base volatility.
Long-Term Liability Burden
The overall debt burden is high in relation to the resource base and direct debt amortizes slowly. The district has no liabilities for retiree benefits.
Lack of Operating Risk
The district's operating responsibilities are minimal and are therefore not a significant credit factor.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Tax Base Key Factor: Significant and sustained improvement in the district's tax base over time, accompanied by diversification, would improve revenue prospects and support higher rating consideration. The Stable Outlook reflects Fitch's expectation that this is unlikely during the current review period.
Reduced Liability Burden: A material reduction in the district's long-term liability burden could result in positive rating consideration.
CREDIT PROFILE
The district was organized in 1984 to provide infrastructure for commercial, retail, and residential development. It is located adjacent to Interstate Highway 70, which is the primary east/west route through the Denver MSA and the state. Major components of the Denver West development include a regional shopping mall and a 1.4 million-square foot office park. Other major properties include a hotel, two strip centers, owner-occupied office buildings, and three apartment complexes (about 750 total units). Retail and multifamily occupancy rates are consistently high; office occupancy rates are lower, but the district's developer anticipates improvement as the result of a recent marketing campaign.
The top 10 taxpayers account for a very high 55% of 2016 assessed valuation (AV). The top payer is Colorado Mills Mall at 22% of AV, and is owned by Simon Property Group (IDR 'A'/Stable). Prospects for increased taxpayer diversity are minimal given the small size and relative maturity of the district.
Dedicated Revenue Stream
Debt service is paid from an unlimited property tax. Therefore, Fitch uses AV as a proxy for revenues in its assessment of growth prospects. District taxable values exhibit compounded annual growth at a slower pace than inflation over the 10 years ended in 2015. Tax base growth prospects for the district remain stagnant, though the developer anticipates some redevelopment activity over the medium term. The rating recognizes the risk inherent in the narrow tax base dominated by the commercial real estate sector.
AV experienced a recessionary decline of 14.6% in fiscal years 2010-2012. However, tax rates are adjusted annually to ensure sufficient revenues for full GO bond repayment.
The district also levies an unlimited property tax for capital outlay and its minimal operations. District management has historically kept the total mill levy rate for operations and debt service at or below 35 mills in order to maintain competitive appeal; the total rate for 2016 is 35 mills.
Long-Term Liability Burden
The district's overall debt burden is high at 12% of market value, and is largely attributable to direct debt. The liability burden is a substantial 116% of personal income due to the very small residential component of the primarily commercial district. Fitch expects the burden to remain high given slow amortization of direct debt and anticipated overlapping debt issuance. The district has no near-term debt plans and does not provide pensions or other postemployment benefits.
Lack of Operating Risk
General fund expenditures are modest and consist primarily of capital outlay and transfers to Lena Gulch Metropolitan District (the operating district) pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement. The district and Lena Gulch share a board of directors and management team. Modest operating costs and capital expenditures can be adjusted during periods of economic stress. The district has no employees, as most services are contracted out.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
In addition to the sources of information identified in Fitch's applicable criteria specified below, this action was informed by information from Lumesis and InvestorTools.
Applicable Criteria
U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015826
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015826
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161202005760/en/