PHOENIX--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Avnet, Inc. (NYSE: AVT), a leading global technology distributor, today announced the addition of two new partner programs to the award-winning Avnet Cloud Marketplace. The new programs align with Avnet’s strategy to provide partners with a one-stop shop for cloud solutions from leading cloud service providers, along with flexible payment models and a powerful cloud management toolset.
The new partner programs are designed to help partners in the U.S. and Canada take advantage of growth opportunities in the cloud market, and they include:
Additionally, partners are now able to access and resell Avnet’s Managed Services through the Avnet Cloud Marketplace. By relying on Avnet’s managed services capabilities, partners can keep their employees focused on business-critical IT initiatives and free up resources to further drive growth. At the same time, partners will be able to offer customers a way to keep pace with technology changes in complex environments.
“The Avnet Cloud Marketplace offers our partners an easy way to expand and deliver their industry-leading cloud solutions for their customers,” said Tim FitzGerald, vice president of digital transformation, Avnet Technology Solutions, Americas. “These new programs and enhancements equip partners with a new set of resources and tools to allow them to quickly onboard new cloud offerings and provide their customers the solutions they demand.”
In addition to the new partner programs, Avnet has also made several enhancements to the Avnet Cloud Marketplace platform that enrich billing reporting, offer additional customization capabilities and provide new supplier features.
These new programs and platform enhancements build upon Avnet’s solutions specialist approach to accelerate the channel’s abilities to capitalize on the next-generation technologies that are rapidly growing and defining the future of computing and the data center. Partners will be able to engage Avnet’s dedicated solutions specialists to develop complete cloud solutions. Avnet also provides the channel with in-depth expertise in complementary technology market segments, including: cognitive computing, data analytics, the data center, the internet of things (IOT), mobility, security and enterprise networking.
For partners interested in learning more about Avnet’s Cloud Marketplace, please visit the Avnet Cloud Marketplace website, or contact your Avnet account representative.
To learn more about how Avnet can help partners grow their businesses, visit ats.avnet.com.
Follow Avnet Technology Solutions on Twitter: @AvnetAdvantage.
Connect with Avnet Technology Solutions on LinkedIn: Avnet Technology Solutions.
Click to tweet: New partner programs in US & Canada to help @AvnetAdvantage partners expand #cloud businesses.
All brands and trade names are trademarks or registered trademarks, and are the properties of their respective owners. Avnet disclaims any proprietary interest in marks other than its own.
About Avnet, Inc.
From components to cloud and design to disposal, Avnet, Inc. (NYSE: AVT) accelerates the success of customers who build, sell and use technology globally by providing them with a comprehensive portfolio of innovative products, services and solutions. For more information, visit www.avnet.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005241/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}