PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Ron Hartz has joined Grant Thornton LLP’s national Business Consulting and Technology Advisory practice as a director in the firm’s Philadelphia office – serving both regional and national clients.
Hartz will apply his decades of financial and corporate leadership experience to helping companies align organizational and technology strategy. Among his proven strengths are budgeting and forecasting as well as capital management and financial metrics. In addition, he has a background in internal reporting and financial-system design and implementation.
Hartz also possesses proven knowledge in the telecommunications industry, having served as the senior vice president of finance at Charter Communications Inc., where he assisted with the preparation of the organization’s acquisitions of Time Warner Cable Inc. and Bright House Networks LLC. Prior to that, he spent 14 years at Comcast Corporation, where he grew from a financial planning and analysis role to senior vice president of finance in support of various functions.
“Ron brings to Grant Thornton proven leadership in the technology and telecommunications sector,” said Sean Denham, Grant Thornton’s Philadelphia office managing partner. “His wealth of knowledge and many years of practice have solidified him as a trusted resource, and he will provide unique value to our current and prospective clients.”
Added Steven Perkins, national managing director of Grant Thornton’s Technology Industry practice, “The evolving nature of the telecommunications industry is rewriting the rules for how companies grow and compete. Having a leader of Ron’s caliber on board will help our clients navigate these changes.”
Hartz received a master’s of business administration degree from Lehigh University and a bachelor’s degree from East Stroudsburg University.
He will be part of Grant Thornton’s Technology Strategy & Management service area within its Business Consulting and Technology Advisory practice.
About Grant Thornton LLP
Founded in Chicago in 1924, Grant Thornton LLP (Grant Thornton) is the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd, one of the world’s leading organizations of independent audit, tax and advisory firms. Grant Thornton has revenues in excess of $1.6 billion and operates 60 offices with more than 570 partners and more than 8,500 personnel in the United States and at our Shared Services Center in Bangalore, India. Grant Thornton works with a broad range of dynamic publicly and privately held companies, government agencies, financial institutions, and civic and religious organizations.
“Grant Thornton” refers to Grant Thornton LLP, the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not obligate, one another and are not liable for one another’s acts or omissions. Please see grantthornton.com for further details.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006149/en/