IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Interfocus Technologies is proud to announce a partnership with Cylance® Inc. to integrate their leading endpoint management solution and CylancePROTECT®, Cylance’s innovative endpoint malware prevention product powered by artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning. The joint solution will strengthen organizations against cyber attacks and deliver never-before-seen visibility into what applications, and potentially unwanted programs, reside on endpoints throughout their networks.
Modern cybersecurity threat prevention and protection requires powerful endpoint solutions that can scale across networks and be managed efficiently with existing resources. The Interfocus Advanced Threat Prevention (ATP) solution presents critical security event information directly from CylancePROTECT within its management dashboard for better visibility, control and protection.
Through the unification of enterprise-wide alerts and logs into a unified dashboard, Interfocus ATP provides centralized visibility into every endpoint on the network and accurately identifies the applications, and potentially unwanted programs, on every endpoint. In addition to preventing threats leveraging CylancePROTECT, enterprises using Interfocus ATP can, in just one click, correlate user activity with threat events for more efficient response and remediation of any breaches. Interfocus ATP is a comprehensive solution that can be centrally managed on-premise in a disconnected environment or in the cloud. Extending its international original equipment manufacturer (OEM) agreement with Cylance to North America, Interfocus introduces this ATP solution to its customers in this region.
“As the number of security threats to business of all sizes continues to increase, organizations require constant monitoring and prevention to defend against attacks,” said Gregory Jorgensen, President of Interfocus Technologies, Inc. “With the integration of Cylance’s next generation technology, Interfocus Advanced Threat Prevention solution will allow enterprises to maintain greater control over the ever-growing number of access points and more effectively block threats and access attempts prior to entry. By partnering with Cylance, Interfocus continues to provide the advanced security solutions our customers need to protect their data, and their businesses.”
“The combination of our best-in-class malware detection and prevention technology with the device monitoring, logging and alerting capabilities offered by Interfocus, Cylance remains on the cutting edge of advanced endpoint and security solutions,” said Stuart McClure, President and CEO at Cylance Inc. “We have always believed that technology integration provides optimal security solutions, and the Interfocus Advanced Threat Prevention solution proves this point. Integrating our technology into the Interfocus solution provides customers with an unsurpassed ability to detect and prevent attempts at information compromise.”
About Interfocus Technologies, Inc.Interfocus Technologies is an endpoint management and security solutions provider delivering visibility into user activity, controlling IT assets, enforcing your policies and supporting enterprise compliance at an affordable price through a single console. We offer US businesses exclusive access to a market-leading technical solution that has helped over 10,000 global clients with 8.6M installed users manage and protect their digital property and productivity.
Interfocus Technologies, Inc. is the US subsidiary of MOTEX, part of the Kyocera Communication Systems Co., Ltd Group in Japan. Through MOTEX’s technological heritage, Interfocus has successfully served clients’ IT management needs for over 25 years. For more information visit: http://www.interfocustechnologies.com/.
About Cylance Inc.®Cylance is the first company to apply artificial intelligence, algorithmic science and machine learning to cybersecurity to prevent the most advanced security threats in the world. Using a breakthrough predictive analysis process, CylancePROTECT® quickly and accurately identifies what is benign and what is a threat, and prevents malicious code from ever executing on a targeted system. By coupling advanced machine learning and artificial intelligence with a unique understanding of an attacker’s mentality, Cylance provides technology and services that are truly predictive and preventive against the most advanced threats. For more information visit: www.cylance.com.
Cylance and CylancePROTECT are registered trademarks or trademarks owned by Cylance Inc. in the United States and other jurisdictions and may not be used without prior written permission. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005576/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}