NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Petsky Prunier is pleased to announce that it has represented Madison Logic Inc., the leading global provider of data-driven, account-based marketing, in its sale to private equity firm Clarion Capital Partners, LLC.
Madison Logic is among the world’s largest and fastest growing companies dedicated to solving the digital marketing needs of B2B marketers. The company’s B2B marketing technology platform, Activate ABM™, unifies targeted advertising and content syndication with attribution metrics to show measurable return on investment. The platform leverages unmatched proprietary data, reach, and scale to identify, engage, and convert prospective accounts. With Madison Logic, B2B marketers can easily gain insights into their target accounts to personalize their message, optimize their programs, and inform their sales and marketing strategy. Madison Logic is a global company based in New York City.
The partnership with Clarion enables Madison Logic to invest further in its Activate ABM™ platform, pushing the company’s already robust data-driven product development efforts across multiple new verticals. The company will also invest in new geographic regions, expand its personnel base, and seek to make strategic acquisitions.
Madison Logic’s existing shareholders, including CEO Tom O’Regan and co-founders Vin Turk and chairman Erik Matlick, will maintain an ownership stake in the company and will continue to build the business in partnership with Clarion. Tom O’Regan will remain Madison Logic’s CEO, managing day-to-day operations and directing the company’s long-term strategy.
Clarion is a New York-based middle market private equity firm. The firm invests in growth companies in a variety of industries, including consumer products and specialty retail, media and entertainment, business services, healthcare services, and specialty financial services.
“I’ve known the professionals at Petsky Prunier since we launched Madison Logic in 2009. They are a true relationship bank, helped us grow the business through two acquisitions, and advised us on a great transaction with Clarion. Petsky Prunier is truly a unique advisory firm – deep understanding of B2B marketing technology combined with M&A experience built over 17 years. We could not have done the deal without them,” said Erik Matlick, Chairman of Madison Logic.
“Petsky Prunier’s focus and commitment was apparent from our first meeting through the close. The team bonded with Madison Logic – leading the sales process and guiding us through the transaction, so the management team could concentrate on growing the business. Their business advice and financial counsel was extremely valuable and I look forward to working with them again," commented Tom O’Regan, CEO of Madison Logic.
Petsky Prunier, with a team led by Seth Rosenfield, John Prunier, and Dylan Kearns, served as exclusive financial advisor to Madison Logic.
About Petsky Prunier LLC
Petsky Prunier is one of the leading investment banks to the technology, media, marketing, eCommerce, and healthcare industries. Our firm's merger and acquisition advisory and private placement capital raising services reflect a unique blend of product specialization and industry expertise. Together with strategic consulting firm Winterberry Group, a Petsky Prunier company, our organization represents one of the largest industry-specific advisors providing strategic and transactional services. We offer global reach supplemented through our partnerships with investment bank The Mountain Capital Group in China, as well as Allegro Advisors and o3 Capital in India. Securities transactions are processed through Petsky Prunier Securities LLC, a member of FINRA and an affiliated entity. For more information, visit www.petskyprunier.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006232/en/