NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has assigned a 'BBB+' rating to the $350 million of 3.60% senior unsecured notes due 2026 issued by National Retail Properties, Inc. (NNN). Fitch expects the net proceeds will be used to repay all of the outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility and for general corporate purposes. A full list of Fitch's current ratings for NNN follows at the end of the release.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The ratings reflect NNN's disciplined investment focus on single-tenant retail real estate and predictable cash flow in excess of fixed charges generated from a granular triple-net leased property portfolio. Credit strengths also include strong financial flexibility as measured by above-average liquidity coverage and appropriate contingent liquidity as measured by unencumbered asset coverage of unsecured debt, and minimal secured debt. Balancing these strengths is some tenant concentration and exposure to predominantly below investment-grade rated tenants. While specific tenant credit profiles have improved via M&A over the past few years, this could be negated in part should defaults in the high-yield market flow through to NNN's portfolio.
Fitch anticipates that leverage will sustain around current levels and remain appropriate for the 'BBB+' rating. NNN has prudently funded its recent acquisitions primarily with common and preferred equity but also with proceeds from asset sales and long-term debt; a more aggressive approach toward funding acquisitions predominantly with debt would be a credit concern.
Disciplined Investment Focus
NNN invests in a fragmented but competitive industry (i.e. unrated net lease retail real estate). The company's portfolio generates predictable cash flow, as evidenced by annual rent bumps of 1.5% to 2% over 15- to 20-year lease terms and consistent occupancy despite the focus on unrated and lower rated tenants. From 2003 through 2015, occupancy did not fall below 96.4% and stood at 99% as of Sept. 30, 2016.
NNN's weighted average remaining lease term is long at 11.5 years, signaling durability in cash flows, absent tenant bankruptcies and lease rejections. Overall, average tenant rent coverage was solid at 3.7x as of Sept. 30, 2016, with only 5.3% of leases set to expire through 2018. Combined, these factors provide a buffer for NNN's credit metrics against the cyclicality of tenant businesses and real estate markets.
Granular Portfolio
As of Sept. 30, 2016, the company owned 2,485 properties leased to over 400 tenants across 48 states. Top states included Texas (18.7% of average base rent [ABR]), Florida (9.2%), Ohio (5.8%), Illinois (5.2%), and North Carolina (4.9%). NNN's largest exposure is in Texas and Florida; however, the portfolio is spread across numerous metropolitan statistical areas in these states, including Dallas, Houston, Brownsville, Austin and San Antonio in Texas, and Tampa, Orlando, Miami and Jacksonville in Florida.
The company's top lines of trade as of Sept. 30, 2016 were convenience stores (c-stores, 16.4% of ABR), full-service restaurants (12.3%), limited-service restaurants (7.6%), automotive service (6.8%), and family entertainment centers (5.8%).
Strong Fixed Charge Coverage for 'BBB+'
The company's fixed charge coverage (FCC) ratio was strong for the 'BBB+' rating at 3.7x for the trailing 12 months (TTM) ended Sept. 30, 2016, compared with 3.4x and 3.2x for full years 2015 and 2014, respectively. Contractual rent escalators on existing properties and recently acquired assets are the primary drivers behind the slight improvement in FCC. Fitch defines FCC as recurring operating EBITDA less straight-line rent adjustments divided by total cash interest incurred and preferred stock dividends.
Fitch's base case anticipates that 2% same-store net operating income (SSNOI) growth along with additional acquisition-related NOI at capitalization rates in the low 7% range will result in coverage sustaining near 3.5x through 2018. In a stress case not anticipated by Fitch in which the company experiences tenant bankruptcies resulting in a 5% decline in SSNOI, FCC would remain above 3x. In both cases, this ratio would be appropriate for the 'BBB+' rating.
Good Liquidity Position and Access to Capital
Liquidity coverage is strong for the rating at 3.7x for the period Oct. 1, 2016 through Dec. 31, 2018, pro forma for the bond issuance. NNN's primary source of liquidity is its $650 million revolving credit facility due 2019. Fitch calculates liquidity coverage as sources of liquidity (unrestricted cash, availability under the company's unsecured credit facility, and projected retained cash flows from operating activities after dividends) divided by uses of liquidity (debt maturities and projected development costs).
Liquidity coverage benefits from high availability under the unsecured line, lack of recurring capital expenditures, and laddered near-term debt maturities. As of Sept. 30, 2016, the company has only 11.7% of debt maturing between Oct. 1, 2016 and Dec. 31, 2018. In addition, Fitch views NNN as having strong access to capital, which further supports its liquidity position.
NNN had limited secured debt (0.8% of total debt as of Sept. 30, 2016), improving its financial flexibility. Contingent liquidity is strong, as unencumbered assets (3Q16 unencumbered NOI divided by a stressed capitalization rate of 9%) covered net unsecured debt by 2.8x as of Sept. 30, 2016, which is strong for the 'BBB+' rating. This ratio has been between 2.4x and 3x since 2012.
Leverage Remains Appropriate
NNN's net debt-to-recurring operating EBITDA was strong for the 'BBB+' rating at 4.4x for the TTM and 4.0x for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2016, compared with 4.5x in 2015 and 4.4x in 2014. When including 50% of preferred stock in total debt, NNN's leverage was 5.0x for the TTM and 4.6x for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2016, still appropriate for the 'BBB+' rating.
Fitch anticipates that NNN will fund its growth with more debt than equity on a go-forward basis, which, combined with retained cash flow after dividends, would result in leverage (including 50% preferred stock) sustaining in the low 5x range.
Dividend Trend Highlights Growth Focus
Fitch expects NNN will continue to increase its dividend going forward due to shareholder expectations but the pay-out ratio will remain appropriate and allow the company to retain approximately $75 million of operating cash flow per year. NNN has raised its dividend annually for the past 26 years as a result of increases in adjusted funds from operations (AFFO) and taxable net income arising from both internal and external growth. NNN's AFFO pay-out ratio was 75.3% for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2016, in-line with the 75% in 2015 and down form the 77.3% in 2014.
Preferred Stock Notching
The two-notch differential between NNN's IDR and preferred stock rating is consistent with Fitch's criteria for corporate entities with an IDR of 'BBB+'. Based on Fitch research titled 'Treatment and Notching of Hybrids in Nonfinancial Corporate and REIT Credit Analysis', these preferred securities are deeply subordinated and have loss absorption elements that would likely result in poor recoveries in the event of a corporate default.
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
Fitch's key assumptions within our rating case for the issuer include:
--SSNOI growth of 2% for 2016-2018;
--Acquisitions of $400 million in 2016, $450 million in 2017, and $500 million in 2018;
--Dispositions of $100 million in 2016, $50 million in 2017 and 2018;
--$400 million unsecured bond offerings in both 2017 and 2018;
--Equity issuance of $150 million in 2016, $225 million in 2017 and none in 2018. If NNN's share price reaches the level where it would not be willing to issue equity, Fitch assumes the company would reduce net acquisitions to maintain leverage at current levels.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The following factors may have a positive impact on NNN's ratings and/or Outlook:
--Fitch's expectation of leverage sustaining below 4.5x (leverage was 4.4x for the TTM ended Sept. 30, 2016);
--Fitch's expectation of fixed charge coverage sustaining above 3.5x (coverage was 3.7x for the TTM ended Sept. 30, 2016);
--Fitch's expectation of the ratio of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt based on a 9% capitalization rate, sustaining above 3.0x (this ratio was 2.8x for the TTM ended Sept. 30, 2016).
The following factors may have a negative impact on NNN's ratings and/or Outlook:
--Fitch's expectation of leverage sustaining above 5.5x;
--Fitch's expectation of fixed-charge coverage sustaining below 2.7x;
--Fitch's expectation of the ratio of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt, based on a 9% capitalization rate, sustaining below 2.5x.
FULL LIST OF RATING ACTIONS
Fitch currently rates NNN as follows:
--Issuer Default Rating (IDR) 'BBB+';
--Unsecured revolving credit facility 'BBB+';
--Senior unsecured notes 'BBB+';
--Preferred stock 'BBB-'.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
Relevant Committee Date: April 21, 2016
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com
Applicable Criteria
Criteria for Rating Non-Financial Corporates (pub. 27 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/885629
Recovery Ratings and Notching Criteria for Equity REITs - Effective from 3 December 2015 to 16 November 2016 (pub. 03 Dec 2015)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/874214
Treatment and Notching of Hybrids in Non-Financial Corporate and REIT Credit Analysis (pub. 29 Feb 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/878264
Additional Disclosures
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015966
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006241/en/