DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Ultrasound Market by Technology, (2D, 3D, 4D Doppler and Other), by Application - Global Industry Perspective, Comprehensive Analysis and Forecast, 2015 - 2021" report to their offering.
Ultrasound Market (Cart/Trolley Based Ultrasound Devices and Compact Ultrasound Devices) by Technology, (2D, 3D, 4D Doppler and Other), by Application (Radiology, Cardiology, Urology, Gastroenterology, Gynecology and Others) - Global Industry Perspective, Comprehensive Analysis and Forecast, 2015 - 2021'
The report covers forecast and analysis for the ultrasound market on a global and regional level. The study provides historic data of 2015 along with a forecast from 2016 to 2021 based on revenue (USD Billion). The study includes drivers and restraints for the ultrasound market along with the impact they have on the demand over the forecast period. Additionally, the report includes the study of opportunities available in the ultrasound market on a global level.
The study provides a decisive view on the ultrasound market by segmenting the market based on product, technology, application and regions. Ultrasound product segment includes cart/trolley based ultrasound devices and compact ultrasound devices. 2D, 3D, 4D ultrasound, doppler and other are technology segment of ultrasound market. All the segments have been analyzed based on present and future trends and the market is estimated from 2015 to 2021. The ultrasound application segment includes radiology, cardiology, urology, gastroenterology, gynecology and others. The regional segmentation includes the current and forecast demand for North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Rest of the world. This segmentation includes demand for alcohol based disinfectant based on individual applications in all the regions.
Key players included in the report are Siemens AG, GE Healthcare, Analogic Corporation, FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation, Mindray Medical International Ltd, EsaoteSpA, Hitachi Ltd, and among others.
The report segments the global ultrasound market as:
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1. Preface
Chapter 2. Executive Summary
Chapter 3. Ultrasound Market: Industry Analysis
Chapter 4. Global Ultrasound Market: Competitive Landscape
Chapter 5. Global Ultrasound Market: Product Overview
Chapter 6. Global Ultrasound Market: Technology Overview
Chapter 7. Global Ultrasound Market: Application Overview
Chapter 8. Global Ultrasound Market: Regional Analysis
Chapter 9. Company Profiles
Chapter 10. Patents
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/x69bm9/ultrasound_market

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005561/en/