CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the City of Miami, FL Department of Off-Street Parking's (DOSP, the department or the authority) approximately $65.04 million of outstanding series 2009 A & B parking system revenue bonds at 'A'.
The Rating Outlook is revised to Positive from Stable.
The Positive Outlook reflects a favorable trend in financial strength demonstrated by increasing debt service coverage due to sustained revenue growth and DOSP's effective cost management. Given the lack of additional borrowings planned under the capital program, the parking enterprise is also expected to have progressive deleveraging.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Summary: The rating reflects the authority's monopoly over key off-street and on-street parking in Miami's thriving central business district. Though parking revenues tend to be correlated with the economy and could be volatile, this is partially offset by DOSP's diverse system of assets and a history of strong revenue generation. The rating is further supported by the authority's flexible annual rate-setting ability and its level debt service profile, which together have generated an increasing debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) profile that should continue to grow above the 3.4x achieved in 2015 even in a scenario of very modest growth. The practice to transfer surplus cashflow to the city may restrict the system's ability to build and maintain liquidity; however, leverage of 2.79x on a net debt-to-cash flow available for debt service (CFADS) basis is moderate and continues to evolve downward.
Dominant Position with High Demand: The DOSP holds a monopolistic position over essential on-street parking spaces in the Miami central business district, which account for 56% of operating revenues. The department's operation of parking garages, surface lots, and on-street parking spaces provides revenue diversity and minimizes reliance on any single system component.
Flexible Rate-Making Ability: The DOSP's authority to increase rates at an average annual rate of 3% per year without city council approval has helped the department maintain a solid operating profile and generate debt service coverage levels above 2x historically. The DOSP makes substantial transfers to the city after payment of debt service each year; however, transfers are made entirely at their discretion and there is no minimum required amount.
Manageable, Expanding Capital Plan: The three-year capital plan (2016-2018) totals $31 million and is largely dedicated to construction of three new parking garages, as well as various IT upgrades and basic repairs. Funding is provided by accumulated deposits in the capital fund, developer contributions and the sale of an existing asset.
Level Debt Structure: The DOSP's debt profile consists of all fixed-rate debt and level annual debt service, with over 25% of debt maturing in 10 years. Debt covenants are sound with an additional bonds test (ABT) of 1.5x and a cash-funded debt service reserve fund (DSRF).
High Coverage, Declining Leverage: Net debt-to-cash flow available for debt service (CFADS) has progressively stepped down each year, at an estimated 2.79x for FY2016, compared to 3.16x the prior year. The DOSP's debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) has also increased, growing to 3.87x in 2016 (unaudited). The authority's coverage has averaged 2.92x since 2009. DOSP also holds ample liquidity of 231 days cash on hand (DCOH), which provides additional cushion against short-term declines and expected lifecycle costs associated with older parking garages.
PEER GROUP
The DOSP's peers include Philadelphia Parking ('A-'/Stable Outlook), Baltimore Washington Airport ('A-'/Stable Outlook), and Pennsylvania Economic Development Authority Harrisburg Parking ('BBB-'/Stable Outlook). The Philadelphia Parking system and Baltimore Washington Airport are viewed as peers even though their exposure is linked to airport operations, as their narrower revenue stream constrains their ratings to similar levels. The Harrisburg parking system is modestly sized but has relatively high leverage above 10x compared to peers. Miami itself has the highest coverage among peers at 3.42x (FY2015), and the second highest leverage, but at just 3.16x (FY2015).
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Positive: Maintenance of coverage levels above 3x on a sustained basis could lead to upward rating migration.
Negative: Expense growth or inadequate rate increases resulting in reduced net revenues and a sustained decline in DSCR below 2.25x-2.50x could lead to a lower rating.
CREDIT UPDATE
Preliminary unaudited results for fiscal 2016 show a continuation of the system's longstanding trend of operating revenue growth. There were no rate increases in FY2016, but the DOSP has the authority to increase rates up to 3% annually or cumulatively without city council approval. Rates are typically adjusted every five years, with the last increase in FY2015.
The strong FY2016 unaudited revenue performance is favorable, with revenues growing 7.9% to $34.2 million from increased parking demand and utilization. DSCR is estimated at 3.87x, compared to 3.42x in FY2015. Through various other funds and excess revenues well above expectations in FY2016, DOSP increased the transfer to the city to $11.3 million from the budgeted $7.2 million. The transfer is not determined per a prescribed formula, but rather at the authority's complete discretion. Fitch expects future satisfactory DSCR, assuming that the DOSP implements future rate increases in accordance with the 2009 parking ordinance and continues to manage operating expenses. Growing income combined with timely debt service has also led to progressive deleveraging each year, with net-debt-to-CFADS dropping from 3.16x in FY2015 to 2.79x in FY2016.
There are currently no near-term borrowing plans; approximately 25% of debt matures in 10 years. The three-year capital improvement plan totals $31 million and includes the construction of three new garages, IT developments, and basic maintenance. Funding is primarily from developer contributions, capital funds, as well as the sale of an existing property.
FITCH CASES
Fitch's base case, which spans 2017-2026, assumes no underlying volume growth, but a rate increase in 2021 consistent with historical increase trends, and 1% annual expenditure growth. In this scenario, DSCR reaches a 10-year average of 3.44x (minimum 2.85x in 2026) and leverage declining annually to 1.74x by 2026.
Fitch's rating case projections forecast no rate increases and stressed expenditure growth of 3% per year. Under these stresses, DSCR reaches a 10-year average of 2.42x (minimum 1.86x in 2026), and leverage climbs to 3.33x in 2026. Despite these stresses, metrics are still robust, reflecting the DOSP's historical success and resilience.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com
Applicable Criteria
Rating Criteria for Infrastructure and Project Finance (pub. 08 Jul 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882594
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016243
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016243
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005662/en/