DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Commercial Charbroilers Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global commercial charbroilers market to grow at a CAGR of 4.56% during the period 2016-2020.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global commercial charbroilers market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report provides a list of some of the prominent players that provide commercial charbroilers. It includes competitors across all geographical regions. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
Charbroilers are used to cook a variety of food items, especially meat, fish, and seafood, at consistent temperatures. Charbroilers give food the appearance and flavor of having been cooked on an outdoor backyard barbecue. One of the primary benefits of charbroilers is they provide better food presentation and offer high production level with a shorter recovery time. Vollrath, Bakers Pride, Garland, Star Manufacturing International, and Vulcan are some of the manufacturers offering charbroilers in the market.
According to the report, one of the primary drivers in the market is increase in foodservice establishments. A rise in the demand for charbroiled cuisine such as the Caribbean cuisine and burgers and sandwiches with charbroiled patties is leading to an increase in the number of restaurants advertising charbroiled cuisine. While some restaurant owners are expanding their food menus to include charbroiled food, many foodservice establishments are also expanding domestically as well as internationally. Such increase in a number of foodservice establishments offering charbroiled food directly relates to a proportional rise in the demand for commercial charbroilers.
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by product type
Part 07: Market segmentation by power type
Part 08: Market segmentation by end-users
Part 09: Geographical segmentation
Part 10: Key leading countries
Part 11: Market drivers
Part 12: Impact of drivers
Part 13: Market challenges
Part 14: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 15: Market trends
Part 16: Vendor landscape
Part 17: Key vendor analysis
Part 18: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/j2bgdw/global_commercial

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005662/en/