CAMPBELL, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Frost & Sullivan has awarded its 2016 Customer Value Leadership Award in PLM for Retail, Apparel and Fashion to Centric Software. Centric Software is the leading Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) solution for fashion, retail, luxury, outdoor, and consumer goods companies.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005075/en/ 
Frost & Sullivan focuses on helping its clients achieve transformational growth and has a global team of analysts and consultants continuously researching a wide range of markets across multiple sectors and geographies. As part of this ongoing research, the consulting firm identifies companies that consistently deepen customer relationships by offering superior products and services that deliver a clear, demonstrable ROI.
“Although there are several competitors in the market offering PLM solutions, Centric is the preferred solution primarily due its simple design that permits collaboration across every function/division in the value chain. As a result, customers gain better visibility of their products, can more swiftly plan new product launches, and can easily coordinate activities among various departments across different locations,” explains David Frigstad, Chairman at Frost & Sullivan.
“The simple operation and faster time-to-market, which offers a higher return on investment, has enabled Centric Software to distinguish itself from other big automation companies. Centric continues to be a popular choice for many fashion brands,” he continues.
“I am delighted with the announcement that Centric has been named the Customer Value Leader in PLM for Retail, Apparel, and Fashion,” says Chris Groves, President and CEO of Centric. “Frost & Sullivan acknowledges the efforts and successes of the entire Centric team in our pursuit to innovate products that create value for our customers and drive business growth through digital transformation.”
Centric Software, Inc. (www.centricsoftware.com)
From its headquarters in Silicon Valley and offices in trend capitals around the world, Centric Software builds technologies for the most prestigious names in fashion, retail, footwear, luxury, outdoor, and consumer goods. Its flagship product lifecycle management (PLM) platform, Centric 8, delivers enterprise-class merchandise planning, product development, sourcing, business planning, quality, and collection management functionality tailored for fast-moving consumer industries. Centric SMB packages extended PLM including innovative technology and key industry learnings tailored for small businesses.
Centric Software has received multiple industry awards, including the Frost & Sullivan Global Product Differentiation Excellence Award in Retail, Fashion, and Apparel PLM in 2016 and Frost & Sullivan’s Global Retail, Fashion, and Apparel PLM Product Differentiation Excellence Award in 2012. Red Herring named Centric to its Top 100 Global list in 2013, 2015, and 2016.
Centric is a registered trademark of Centric Software. All other brands and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Copyright 2016, Centric Software Inc. All rights reserved.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005075/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005075/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}