LYON, France & NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The MEDICREA Group (Alternext Paris: FR0004178572 - ALMED), worldwide leader pioneering the development and manufacture of personalized analytical services and implant solutions for the treatment of complex spinal conditions, today announced that it will host a Key Opinion Leader breakfast in New York City for investors focused on advances in the personalized spine market at 8:00 am Eastern Time on Thursday, December 15, 2016.
The meeting will feature keynote presentations by spine surgeon KOLs Nicholas Qandah, DO, from the Mohawk Valley Health System, and Themistocles Protopsaltis, MD, from NYU Langone Medical Center, Bellevue Hospital, who will provide an overview of the complex spine market and discuss current and novel approaches to treating complex spinal conditions.
Members of the Medicrea management team will provide an overview of the Company’s UNiD™ personalized spinal technology platform of analytical services and patient-specific implants for the complex spine market, which received the first ever FDA Clearance for a personalized spinal treatment modality.
Dr. Nicholas Qandah is a complex spine specialist and the Director of Neurosurgery at the Mohawk Valley Health System in New Hartford, NY. Dr. Qandah was previously the Director of the Complex Spine Program for Neurosurgery and an Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery for the Residency Program at Virginia Tech Carilion Clinic in Roanoke, VA. In addition to general neurosurgery, Dr. Qandah treats patients with back and neck pain, degenerative disc disease, spinal stenosis, and herniated discs. He has special interest and expertise in minimally invasive spine surgery, complex spine surgery, and surgery for scoliosis. Dr. Qandah is a Fellow of the American College of Osteopathic Surgeons and a member of the Association for Collaborative Spine Research. Dr. Qandah completed his Neurosurgical Residency training at the Virginia Tech Carilion Clinic and was subsequently awarded the AO Complex Spine Fellowship in Orthopedics and Neurosurgery at the prestigious Harborview Medical Center at the University of Washington in Seattle, WA.
Dr. Themistocles Protopsaltis is an orthopedic spine surgeon at NYU Langone Medical Center and the Hospital for Joint Diseases. He serves as Director of Adult Spinal Deformity Surgery and Director of the Orthopaedic Spine Service at Bellevue Hospital Center in New York, NY. He is also an Assistant Professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU School of Medicine. Dr. Protopsaltis is board certified in orthopedic surgery and is actively involved in many research areas. Some of his interests include cervical and thoracolumbar spinal deformity, cervical spondylotic myelopathy surgical outcomes, and proximal junctional kyphosis avoidance in adult scoliosis patients. He is a member of the International Spine Study Group, comprised of leading physicians from multiple academic centers studying cervical and thoracolumbar spinal deformity surgery. He is also a fellow of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. Dr. Protopsaltis earned his medical degree at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and completed his orthopedic surgery residency at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He has completed a spine surgery fellowship at NYU Langone Hospital for Joint Diseases.
The event is intended for investors, analysts, investment bankers, and business development professionals only. If you would like to attend in person, please contact Mac MacDonald at 212-915-2567 or via e-mail at Mac@LifeSciAdvisors.com to reserve a place.
A live webcast of the event, with slides, will be available at http://lifesci.rampard.com/20161215/reg.jsp and within the Investors section of the Company’s website at www.medicrea.com.
About MEDICREA (www.medicrea.com)
MEDICREA specializes in bringing pre-operative digital planning and pre and post-operative analytical services to the world of complex spine. Through the lens of predictive medicine, MEDICREA leads the design, integrated manufacture, and distribution of 30+ FDA approved implant technologies, utilized in over 100k spinal surgeries to date. Operating in a $10 billion marketplace, MEDICREA is an SME with 150 employees worldwide, which includes 55 at its USA Corp. subsidiary in NYC. The Company has an ultra-modern manufacturing facility in Lyon, France housing the development and production of 3D-printed titanium patient- specific implants.
By leveraging its proprietary software analysis tools with big data and deep learning technologies supported by an expansive collection of clinical and scientific data, MEDICREA is well-placed to streamline the efficiency of spinal care, reducing procedural complications and limiting time spent in the O.R.
For further information, please visit: medicrea.com.
Connect with MEDICREA:FACEBOOK | INSTAGRAM | TWITTER | WEBSITE | YOUTUBE
MEDICREA is listed on ALTERNEXT Paris ISIN: FR 0004178572 – Ticker: ALMED

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006436/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}