WALTHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
NeuroMetrix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NURO, NUROW) announced today that the Company’s Quell® Wearable Pain Relief device is now available on Amazon Launchpad.
Amazon Launchpad is a program that makes it easy for startups to launch, market, and distribute their products to hundreds of millions of Amazon customers across the globe. Amazon Launchpad has worked with over 100 leading venture capital firms, startup accelerators, and crowd-funding platforms to help more than 1,000 startups launch products in the U.S., U.K., China, Germany, France, and Canada. To shop the Amazon Launchpad store, visit www.amazon.com/launchpad.
“We are excited that Quell is now being sold on Amazon.com through the Amazon Launchpad program,” said Frank McGillin, Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer of NeuroMetrix. “This allows for additional educational content for consumers, and now that Quell is shipped and sold by Amazon, customers can take advantage of the fast, free shipping benefits of Amazon Prime.”
About Quell
Quell is designed for millions of people suffering from chronic pain. The advanced wearable device is lightweight and can be worn during the day while active, and at night while sleeping. It has been cleared by the FDA for treatment of chronic pain without a prescription. In a recent study, 81% of Quell users reported an improvement in their chronic pain. Quell users can start, stop, and adjust therapy discreetly via the optional Quell Relief app. Quell also offers advanced sleep tracking that provides feedback on eight dimensions of sleep including sleep duration, quality, body position, time out of bed, and repetitive leg movements throughout the night. Quell was the winner of the 2016 SXSW (South by Southwest) Innovation Award for Best Wearable Technology. Quell is available at select healthcare professionals and retailers. Visit QuellRelief.com for more information.
About NeuroMetrix
NeuroMetrix is a commercial stage, innovation driven healthcare company combining bioelectrical and digital medicine to address chronic health conditions including chronic pain, sleep disorders, and diabetes. The company's lead product is Quell, an over-the-counter wearable therapeutic device for chronic pain. Quell is integrated into a digital health platform that helps patients optimize their therapy and decrease the impact of chronic pain on their quality of life. The company also markets DPNCheck®, a rapid point-of-care test for diabetic neuropathy, which is the most common long-term complication of Type 2 diabetes. The company maintains an active research effort and has several pipeline programs, including a therapeutic device for restless leg syndrome. The company is located in Waltham, Massachusetts and was founded as a spinoff from the Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology in 1996. For more information, please visit www.NeuroMetrix.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005959/en/