SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Juno Therapeutics, Inc. (JUNO), a biopharmaceutical company developing innovative cellular immunotherapies for the treatment of cancer, today provided an update of key data from studies of its investigational chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell product candidates, presented at the 58th American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting in San Diego, December 3-6, 2016.
“We are encouraged by the safety and efficacy results we are seeing with JCAR017 and JCAR014 in several B-cell malignancy settings, including in non-Hodgkin lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and the possibilities suggested by early data in treating patients with CD19-negative disease,” said Hans Bishop, Juno’s President and CEO. “We are also learning more about factors that contribute to efficacy and managing the toxicities associated with CAR T therapy and will apply what we learn to our broader development pipeline.”
Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL): JCAR017
Final results from the Phase I Pediatric Leukemia Adoptive Therapy-02 (PLAT-02) study with JCAR017 in children and young adults with relapsed or refractory (r/r) CD19-positive ALL were presented in an oral session by Rebecca Gardner, M.D., of Seattle Children’s Research Institute (Abstract #219), on Saturday, December 4. JCAR017 uses a defined CD4:CD8 cell composition and 4-1BB as the costimulatory domain, which differentiates it from other CD19-directed CAR T product candidates in clinical development.
The presentation updated data previously presented at ASCO in June 2016. It included 43 pediatric and young adult patients treated with JCAR017 who were evaluable for response.
Key results:
A second study presented by Dr. Gardner examined toxicity management in the PLAT-02 trial (Abstract #586). In the study, two cohorts were given either anti-IL6 (tocilizumab) alone or the combination of tocilizumab and the steroid dexamethasone, with the goal of preventing sCRS. Results showed:
Pediatric ALL: JCAR018
Nirali N. Shah, M.D., of the National Cancer Institute, presented data from a Phase I study of JCAR018, a CAR T cell product candidate targeting CD22, in 16 pediatric patients with r/r CD19-negative ALL (Abstract #650) on Monday, December 5. The study is the first to evaluate CAR T cell therapy in patients expressing CD22. All of the patients had been previously treated with anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy and had previously undergone at least one allogeneic stem cell transplant.
Key results:
The study continues to enroll patients. Juno is currently testing pre-clinical constructs to better understand the optimal way to target these two antigens in the same product.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL): JCAR017
In a poster presentation on Monday, December 5, Jeremy Abramson, M.D., of Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, presented results from the Phase I TRANSCEND study in patients with r/r DLBCL, follicular lymphoma grade 3B or mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who were treated with flu/cy lymphodepletion and JCAR017.
Topline results included a 12/20 (60%) complete response in patients with r/r DLBCL (N=19) and follicular lymphoma grade 3B (N=1) treated with a single dose of JCAR017 at dose level 1 (5x107 cells). No sCRS was observed; grade 3-4 neurotoxicity was observed in 3/22 (14%) patients, all of whom received the steroid dexamethasone for neurotoxicity. In addition, the side effect profile plus cell persistence suggests the potential for combination therapy.
The Phase I TRANSCEND trial continues, enrolling more patients at dose levels 1 and 2. Juno intends to initiate a pivotal trial in the U.S. in patients with r/r DLBCL in 2017.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL): JCAR014
In an oral presentation on Saturday, December 4, Cameron Turtle, M.B.B.S., Ph.D., of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, reported on results from a Phase I study of heavily pre-treated patients with CLL who failed treatment with ibrutinib, the standard-of-care treatment for CLL. Fifteen of 17 (88%) efficacy-evaluable patients who had bone marrow disease at the start of the trial and treated with flu/cy and the two lowest doses of JCAR014 had a complete marrow response by flow cytometry. Fourteen of the complete bone marrow response patients had a response assessment by the more sensitive method of IgH deep sequencing, with 7/14 (50%) having no detectable disease. All seven of these patients are alive and progression free with follow-up ranging from 3 to 26 months.
Two of 24 (8%) patients developed grade 3-5 sCRS and 6/24 (25%) patients developed grade 3-5 severe neurotoxicity. There was one treatment-related mortality (4%) in the trial in a patient who received flu/cy lymphodepletion, with both grade 5 CRS and cerebral edema.
Plans to study JCAR014 in combination with ibrutinib in CLL are underway, with a cohort expected to begin enrollment in early 2017. Juno is evaluating the use of this data with JCAR014 as a monotherapy and in combination with ibrutinib in support of a potential Juno-sponsored trial with JCAR017 in CLL.
ABOUT JUNO
Juno Therapeutics is building a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company focused on re-engaging the body’s immune system to revolutionize the treatment of cancer. Founded on the vision that the use of human cells as therapeutic entities will drive one of the next important phases in medicine, Juno is developing cell-based cancer immunotherapies based on chimeric antigen receptor and high-affinity T cell receptor technologies to genetically engineer T cells to recognize and kill cancer. Juno is developing multiple cell-based product candidates to treat a variety of B-cell malignancies as well as solid tumors. Several product candidates have shown compelling clinical responses in clinical trials in refractory leukemia and lymphoma conducted to date. Juno's long-term aim is to leverage its cell-based platform to develop new product candidates that address a broader range of cancers and human diseases. Juno brings together innovative technologies from some of the world's leading research institutions, including the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Seattle Children's Research Institute, the University of California, San Francisco, and The National Cancer Institute. Juno Therapeutics has an exclusive license to the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital patented technology for CD19-directed product candidates that use 4-1BB, which was developed by Dario Campana, Chihaya Imai, and St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital.
ABOUT THE JUNO-CELGENE COLLABORATION
Celgene Corporation and Juno Therapeutics formed a collaboration in June 2015 under which the two companies will leverage T cell therapeutic strategies to develop treatments for patients with cancer and autoimmune diseases with an initial focus on chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and T cell receptor (TCR) technologies. In April 2016, Celgene exercised its option to develop and commercialize the Juno CD19 program outside North America and China.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements regarding Juno’s mission, progress, and business plans, clinical trial results and the implications thereof, clinical trial plans and timing, the potential of JCAR017 to treat patients with CLL, the possibility of targeting both CD19 and CD22 in the same product, the potential of combination therapies, and the potential of the collaboration between Juno and Celgene. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, risks associated with: the success, cost, and timing of Juno's product development activities and clinical trials; Juno's ability to obtain regulatory approval for and to commercialize its product candidates; Juno's ability to establish a commercially-viable manufacturing process and manufacturing infrastructure; regulatory requirements and regulatory developments; success of Juno's competitors with respect to competing treatments and technologies; Juno's dependence on third-party collaborators and other contractors in Juno's research and development activities, including for the conduct of clinical trials and the manufacture of Juno's product candidates; Juno's dependence on Celgene for the development and commercialization outside of North America and China of Juno’s CD19 product candidates and any other product candidates for which Celgene exercises an option; Juno’s dependence on JW Therapeutics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd, over which Juno does not exercise complete control, for the development and commercialization of product candidates in China; Juno's ability to obtain, maintain, or protect intellectual property rights related to its product candidates; amongst others. For a further description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, as well as risks relating to Juno's business in general, see Juno's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 9, 2016 and Juno’s other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Juno disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006261/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}