STOCKHOLM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Rejlers (STO:REJL)
Rejlers Energiprojekt has been engaged to carry out an energy service project for Karlshamnsbostäder AB in Karlshamn Municipality. The project is being conducted as a design construct contract with Rejlers Energiprojekt AB the turnkey contractor. The objective of the project is to improve the technical status and energy efficiency of the homes and premises covered by the project. The total area is 140,000 sq. m. with an option for around 20,000 sq. m. more.
The assignment comprises improvements to ventilation systems, heat distribution systems, control system upgrades, replacement of windows, supplemental insulation and energy optimisation. The order value is around SEK 50 million and is expected to begin with analyses at the beginning of 2017. The implementation contracts are scheduled to commence in 2018.
“We are looking forward to working together with Karlshamnsbostäder in this project. This approach is really a fantastic opportunity for large property owners to take a proper grasp of lowering their energy consumption at the same time that their technical systems are upgraded as a package deal. We at Rejlers are there and take charge of the whole chain from analysis of the property portfolio and implementation of the improvement contracts to follow-up and optimisation in the operations phase,” says Per Sjöbom, CEO of Rejlers Energiprojekt. Rejlers Energiprojekt AB has experience of more than 2,000,000 sq. m. with these kinds of projects with very good and guaranteed results.
Rejlers is one of the largest engineering consultancy firms in the Nordic region. Our 2,000 experts work with projects in the areas of Building and property, Energy, Industry and Infrastructure. At Rejlers, you will meet specialist engineers with the knowledge, cutting edge expertise and energy to achieve results. We are still experiencing rapid growth and can now be found in 80 locations in Sweden, Finland and Norway. Rejlers recorded revenue of SEK 1.9 billion in 2015 and its class B share is listed on NASDAQ Stockholm.
This information is information that Rejlers AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 11.30 am CET on December 9th 2016.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005194/en/