NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has upgraded the ratings of CalAtlantic Group, Inc. (CAA), including the company's Issuer Default Rating (IDR), to 'BB' from 'BB-'. The Rating Outlook is Stable. A complete list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The upgrade of the company's IDR to 'BB' reflects the company's execution of its business model in the current moderately recovering housing environment, its land policies, and geographic diversity. The upgrade is also supported by the company's improving financial results and credit metrics following the merger with The Ryland Group (Ryland) in October 2015.
Risk factors include the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry. The ratings also take into account CAA's recently implemented share repurchase program. In July 2016, CAA's board authorized a $500 million share repurchase program, replacing the previous $200 million authorization put in place in February 2016. Through the first ten months of 2016, CAA repurchased about $187 million of its stock, funded primarily with free cash flow.
IMPROVING FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CREDIT METRICS
The company completed its merger with The Ryland Group on Oct. 1, 2015 and the integration of the two companies has proceeded well and management has achieved its targeted annual synergy run rate of $80 million. CAA's homebuilding revenues during the first nine months of 2016 increased 22% on a proforma basis to $4.4 billion as home deliveries grew 13% and the average selling price advanced 8%. The company reported homebuilding pretax income of $505.6 million or 11.5% of homebuilding revenues during the first nine months of 2016, up from $383.7 million or 10.6% during the same period last year.
CAA's net debt (homebuilding debt less unrestricted homebuilding cash) to capitalization declined from 53.7% at the end of 2014 to 46.4% at the conclusion of 2015 and 45.1% as of Sept. 30, 2016. Debt to EBITDA improved from 4.5x at the end of 2014 to 4.0x for the latest-12-months (LTM) ending Sept. 30, 2016. Interest coverage rose from 3.1x during 2014 to 3.4x in 2015 and 4.0x for the Sept. 30, 2016 LTM period. Fitch expects further improvement in these credit metrics, including debt to EBITDA at or below 3.5x and interest coverage approaching 5x by the end of 2017, which are consistent with the positive rating triggers identified by Fitch last year. Additionally, net debt to capitalization is projected to be below 45% by the end of 2017.
LAND POSITION AND SPENDING
As of Sept. 30, 2016, the company controlled roughly 67,964 lots, of which 75.6% were owned and the remaining lots controlled through options and joint ventures. Total lots controlled increased 91% YOY as a result of the combination with Ryland, which closed on Oct. 1, 2015. On a pro forma basis, total lots controlled declined 10.3% YOY as the pro forma owned land position fell 4.9% and its lots under option fell 23%.
Based on LTM closings, CAA's total lots controlled declined from about seven years as of Sept. 30, 2015 to five years currently while owned lots fell from 5.8 years to 3.8 years currently. The company's current lot position is roughly in line with the average lot positions of issuers in Fitch's homebuilding coverage. The company ultimately wants to reduce its total controlled lots to about four years based on a trailing-12-months basis.
CAA's land and development spending totalled $1.6 billion on a proforma basis during 2015. Through the first nine months of 2016, CAA expended $1.15 billion on land and development activities. For all of 2016, the company is targeting approximately $1.7 billion of land and development spending. At this level of spending, Fitch expects CAA will be modestly cash flow positive for the year.
Fitch is comfortable with this real estate strategy given the company's strong liquidity position and management's demonstrated ability to manage its spending. Management reiterated that land and development spending will remain a priority, but the company will adhere to its strict underwriting guidelines. Additionally, Fitch expects management will pull back on spending if the current recovery in housing stalls or dissipates.
LIQUIDITY AND CASH FLOW
As of Sept. 30, 2016, CAA had unrestricted cash of $184 million and $491.1 million of availability under its $750 million revolving credit facility that matures in October 2019.
The company generated positive cash flow from operations (CFFO) of $112 million for the LTM period ending Sept. 30, 2016 after reporting negative CFFO of $362.4 million during 2014 and negative $271.5 million during 2015. Fitch expects CAA will generate positive CFFO of $150 million - $350 million during 2016 and perhaps a modestly higher amount in 2017.
CAA has meaningful debt coming due in the next 18 months, including $230 million of senior notes maturing in May 2017, $575 million of senior notes coming due in May 2018 and $225 million of convertible senior notes maturing in May 2018. Additionally, holders of the company's $253 million 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2032 may require the company to purchase all or any portion of their notes for cash on August 1, 2017. CAA has shown the ability to access the capital markets, issuing $300 million of 5.25% 10-year senior unsecured notes in May 2016. Fitch expects the company will access the capital markets to refinance its upcoming debt maturities.
GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY
CAA was the 5th largest U.S. homebuilder in 2015 (on a proforma basis) based on home closings. More importantly, according to management, CAA has a top 10 market share in 22 metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs), including a top five market share in 11 of the 25 largest MSAs. It is one of the most geographically diverse builders with operations in 41 markets across 17 states. Management estimates that about 22% of its third quarter 2016 deliveries were from entry-level buyers, 68% from move-up buyers, 8% from luxury buyers and 2% from the active adult sector.
HOUSING CONTINUES MODERATE RECOVERY
Though far from spectacular, the 2016 spring selling season was solid. Fitch is projecting single-family starts to expand 10% in 2016 while multifamily volume falls about 1%. Total starts would be roughly 1.18 million (up 6%). New home sales should improve about 14%, while existing home sales rise 3%.
The year 2017 could prove to be almost a mirror image of 2016. Economic growth should be somewhat stronger in 2017, although overall inflation should be more pronounced. Interest rates will rise further but demographics and employment growth should be at least as positive in 2017. First-time buyers will continue to gradually represent a higher portion of housing purchases as millennials are making an entry in the home-buying market and credit qualification standards loosen further. Land and labor costs will inflate more rapidly than materials costs. New home prices will continue to benefit from still-restrained levels of new home inventory, although a greater mix toward first-time/entry-level products will likely confine new home price appreciation to the low single digits.
Fitch projects single-family starts will expand 10% while multi-family volume grows about 1%. Total starts would be approximately 1.26 million, up 7% from 2016. New and existing home sales should advance 10% and 1.7%, respectively.
Longer term, there are regulatory risks, including uncertainty over the incoming administration's housing policies.
SOME EROSION IN AFFORDABILITY
The most recent Freddie Mac 30 year average mortgage rate increased more than 50 bps from 3.54% before the elections to 4.08% based in the most current survey. Of course, current rates are still well below historical averages and help moderate the effect of much higher home prices during the past few years. Income growth has been (and may continue to be) relatively modest. Nevertheless, there has been some lessening of affordability as the upcycle in housing has matured. The Realtor Association's composite affordability index peaked at 207.3 in the first quarter of 2012, averaged 176.9 in 2013, 165.8 in 2014, 165.7 in 2015 and was 167.5 in September 2016.
Affordability in the U.S. remains very good by historical standards, despite the increase in home prices. The home price/income ratio is at the lowest level in over 25 years and mortgage rates remain near historical lows. However, the abrupt increase in interest rates following the November 2016 elections could meaningfully erode affordability and trigger a temporary slowdown in demand. Such was the case in 2013 when interest rates increased from an average of 3.45% in April to 4.49% in September 2013. During the last two months of 2013 existing home sales (on a seasonally-adjusted basis) fell almost 10% compared with the level reported in July 2013. Fitch expects mortgage rates will be 40 bps-50 bps higher, on average, during 2017 compared with 2016.
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
Fitch's key assumptions within the rating case for CAA include:
--Industry single-family housing starts improve 10%, while new and existing home sales grow 14% and 3.0%, respectively, in 2016. Fitch expects the housing upcycle to continue in 2017, with single-family housing starts advancing 10% while new and existing home sales improve 10% and 1.7%, respectively;
--CAA's homebuilding revenues increase about 7% - 10% in 2017;
--The company's net debt to capitalization ratio settles at about 46% at the end of 2016 and below 45% at year-end 2017;
--CAA generates cash flow from operations of $150 million to $350 million during 2016 and perhaps a modestly higher amount in 2017;
--The company makes moderate share repurchases, funded primarily with FCF;
--CAA maintains an adequate liquidity position (above $500 million) with a combination of unrestricted cash and revolver availability.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Additional positive rating actions may be considered if CAA shows further steady improvement in credit metrics (such as net debt to capitalization ratio consistently approaching 40%), while maintaining a healthy liquidity position (in excess of $700 million in a combination of cash and revolver availability) and continues generating consistent positive cash flow from operations as it manages its land and development spending.
Negative rating actions may be considered if there is sustained erosion of profits due to either weak housing activity, meaningful and continued loss of market share, and/or ongoing land, materials and labor cost pressures (resulting in margin contraction and weakened credit metrics, including net debt to capitalization sustained at or above 50%) and CAA maintains an overly aggressive land and development spending program that leads to consistent negative cash flow from operations, higher debt levels and diminished liquidity position. In particular, Fitch will be focused on assessing the company's ability to repay debt maturities with available liquidity and internally generated cash flow.
Negative rating actions may also be considered if the company executes on a meaningful share repurchase program that is funded primarily by debt, leading to weaker credit metrics and diminished liquidity position
FULL LIST OF RATING ACTIONS
Fitch has upgraded the following ratings for CalAtlantic Group, Inc.:
--Long-Term IDR to 'BB' from 'BB-';
--Senior unsecured debt to 'BB/RR4' from 'BB-/RR4';
--Unsecured revolving credit facility to 'BB/RR4' from 'BB-/RR4'.
The Recovery Rating of '4' for CAA's unsecured debt and revolving credit facility support a rating of 'BB', and reflects average recovery prospects in a distressed scenario.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com
Summary of Financial Statement Adjustments - Financial statement adjustments that depart materially from those contained in the published financial statements of the relevant rated entity or obligor are disclosed below:
--Historical and projected EBITDA is adjusted to add back non-cash stock-based compensation and interest expense included in cost of sales and also excludes impairment charges, land option abandonment costs and merger-related costs and charges.
Applicable Criteria
Criteria for Rating Non-Financial Corporates (pub. 27 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/885629
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015981
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015981
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006419/en/