COLUMBUS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Express, Inc. (EXPR), a specialty retail apparel company, announced its financial results for the third quarter of 2016. These results, which cover the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016, are compared to the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October 31, 2015.
David Kornberg, the Company’s president and chief executive officer, stated: “Our third quarter performance was highlighted by sales and earnings in line with our guidance and progress made addressing the areas noted for improvement during our second quarter call. This progress included refocusing our brand projection and marketing to be more consistent with our core demographic and additional steps taken to drive customer acquisition and retention. Notably, while mall traffic challenges continued to impact our store performance, we achieved a double digit increase in e-commerce sales.”
Mr. Kornberg, continued: "We expect the holiday season to remain challenging as mall traffic and a highly promotional retail environment continue to be headwinds. That being said, we believe our focus and execution against our key priorities, which include driving improved profitability through a balanced approach to growth, elevating our brand and customer experience, investing in the growth and development of our associates and achieving the benefits from our systems implementations, will position our Company to create shareholder value over the long term.”
Third Quarter 2016 Operating Results:
Third Quarter 2016 Balance Sheet Highlights:
2016 Guidance:
The table below compares the Company's projected results for the thirteen week period ended January 28, 2017 to the actual results for the thirteen week period ended January 30, 2016.
The table below compares the Company's projected results for the 52 week period ended January 28, 2017 to the actual results for the 52 week period ended January 30, 2016.
This guidance does not take into account any additional non-core items that may occur.
See Schedule 5 for a discussion of projected real estate activity.
Conference Call Information:
A conference call to discuss third quarter 2016 results is scheduled for Thursday, December 1, 2016 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). Investors and analysts interested in participating in the call are invited to dial (877) 705-6003 approximately ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The conference call will also be webcast live at: http://www.express.com/investor and remain available for 90 days. A telephone replay of this call will be available at 12:00 p.m. ET on December 1, 2016 until 11:59 p.m. ET on December 8, 2016 and can be accessed by dialing (877) 870-5176 and entering replay pin number 13650225.
About Express, Inc.:
Express is a specialty apparel and accessories retailer of women's and men's merchandise, targeting the 20 to 30- year-old customer. Express has more than 35 years of experience offering a distinct combination of fashion and quality for multiple lifestyle occasions at an attractive value addressing fashion needs across work, casual, jeanswear, and going-out occasions. The Company currently operates more than 650 retail and factory outlet stores, located primarily in high-traffic shopping malls, lifestyle centers, and street locations across the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico. Express merchandise is also available at franchise locations in Latin America and the Middle East. Express also markets and sells its products through its e-commerce website, www.express.com, as well as on its mobile app.
Forward-Looking Statements:
Certain statements are “forward-looking statements” made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact and include, but are not limited to, (1) guidance and expectations for the fourth quarter and full year 2016, including statements regarding expected comparable sales, effective tax rates, interest expense, net income, adjusted net income, diluted earnings per share, adjusted diluted earnings per share, and capital expenditures, (2) statements regarding expected store openings, store closures, and gross square footage, and (3) statements regarding the Company's future plans and initiatives, including, but not limited to, results expected from such initiatives. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict, and significant contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Among these factors are (1) changes in consumer spending and general economic conditions; (2) our ability to identify and respond to new and changing fashion trends, customer preferences, and other related factors; (3) fluctuations in our sales, results of operations, and cash levels on a seasonal basis and due to a variety of other factors, including, our product offerings relative to customer demand, the mix of merchandise we sell, promotions, and inventory levels; (4) competition from other retailers; (5) customer traffic at malls, shopping centers, and at our stores and online; (6) our dependence on a strong brand image; (7) our ability to develop and maintain a relevant and reliable omni-channel experience for our customers; (8) the failure or breach of information systems upon which we rely; (9) our ability to protect customer data from fraud and theft; (10) our dependence upon third parties to manufacture all of our merchandise; (11) changes in the cost of raw materials, labor, and freight; (12) supply chain disruption; (13) our dependence upon key executive management; (14) our growth strategy, including our ability to improve the productivity of our existing stores, open new stores, and grow our e-commerce business; (15) our substantial lease obligations; (16) our reliance on third parties to provide us with certain key services for our business; (17) claims made against us resulting in litigation or changes in laws and regulations applicable to our business; (18) our inability to protect our trademarks or other intellectual property rights which may preclude the use of our trademarks or other intellectual property around the world; (19) restrictions imposed on us under the terms of our asset-based loan facility, including restrictions on our ability to repurchase our common stock; (20) impairment charges on long-lived assets; and (21) changes in tax requirements, results of tax audits, and other factors that may cause fluctuations in our effective tax rate. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Express, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005457/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwalignr {text-align: right !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwdoublebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: double !important; border-bottom-width: 2.25pt !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadb1 {padding-bottom: 2.0px !important;} .bwpadb3 {padding-bottom: 4.0px !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadl1 {padding-left: 5.0px !important;} .bwpadl12 {padding-left: 60.0px !important;} .bwpadl3 {padding-left: 15.0px !important;} .bwpadl4 {padding-left: 20.0px !important;} .bwpadl6 {padding-left: 30.0px !important;} .bwpadl7 {padding-left: 35.0px !important;} .bwpadl9 {padding-left: 45.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignm {vertical-align: middle !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}