SKÄRHAMN, Sweden--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Viking Supply Ships (OSE:VSS01) (STO:VSSAB)
The Board of Directors of Viking Supply Ships AB has appointed Mr. Trond Myklebust as Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Mr. Myklebust will also act as CEO in Viking Supply Ships A/S, and will take over the responsibilities as CEO in both companies ultimo January.
Mr. Myklebust is currently employed as CEO of Fjord Shipping AS. He has extensive experience from the Offshore industry, most notably from his position as Managing Director of Bourbon Norway and ship broker and General Manager within Seabrokers. He has also been Managing Director of Kongsberg Evotec and has a long career as Chief Officer and Master within the Norwegian Coastguard and Remøy/Havila.
Mr. Myklebust is a Master Mariner from Aalesund University College.
With effect as of the same date, Mr. Bengt A. Rem will be reinstated as Chairman of the Board of Viking Supply Ships AB. Mr. Folke Patriksson will return to his previous position as Deputy Chairman.
Viking Supply Ships AB is the parent company of a Swedish shipping group with its main office in Gothenburg, Sweden. The Group conducts its business in four segments: Anchor Handling Tug Supply ships (AHTS), Platform Supply Vessels (PSV), Services and Ship Management. The business is focused within offshore and ice-breaking primarily in Arctic and subarctic areas. The Group has approximately 500 employees and its revenue for 2015 amounted to MSEK 1.114. The Company’s series B share is listed at Nasdaq Stockholm, Small Cap segment. www.vikingsupply.com.
This information is information that Viking Supply Ships AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 08.30 a.m. CET on 6 December 2016.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006423/en/