SAN FRANCISCO & LOUISVILLE, Ky.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Continuing its quest to provide the best fan experience, Visa, an NFL Sponsor for more than 20 years, announced the availability of Visa Checkout with Papa John’s, the Official Pizza Sponsor of the NFL. Pizza and football fans can now spend more time building their favorite pizza and watching their team dominate on the field, and less time filling out payment and delivery information. For a limited time, Visa Checkout and Papa John’s are ensuring fans are well-fed by offering them a new deal: order any Papa John’s pizza on PapaJohns.com and pay using Visa Checkout, and get a free large 1-topping pizza with your next purchase.
“Papa John’s is delivering a better game day ordering experience to customers nationwide with Visa Checkout,” said Steve Ritchie, president and chief operating officer at Papa John’s. “Just like our pizza, this easy checkout process is made with quality ingredients – speed, simplicity and security.”
“Visa Checkout is the perfect topping to any Papa John’s pizza order,” said Sam Shrauger, senior vice president of digital solutions at Visa. “Papa John’s already offers customers an innovative way to order their favorite pizza with their pizza builder, and we’re building on that innovation and giving pizza lovers another way to pay faster than ever.”
In a new Visa ad airing on Fox Network on Sunday, December 4, Pittsburgh Steelers’ Wide Receiver Antonio Brown and the New England Patriots’ Cornerback Malcolm Butler race to the stadium for their big game while using Visa Checkout to order Papa John’s, showing fans the easy checkout process.
Payment through Visa Checkout is now live on PapaJohns.com. For more information on terms and conditions, visit http://www.papajohns.com/visa-checkout/.
Visa Checkout
One of the fastest-growing consumer products in the company’s history, Visa Checkout now has more than 16 million consumer accounts. Hundreds of thousands of large and small merchants and 1,400 financial institution partners now offer Visa Checkout in 21 countries around the world. Visa Checkout merchants represent some of the biggest retailers on the internet, including Best Buy, Fandango, Gap, Neiman Marcus, Staples, Rakuten, Under Armour, Virgin America, Williams Sonoma and zulily. For a full list of participating merchants, and to learn more about Visa Checkout’s benefits for merchants, issuers and consumers alike, visit www.visacheckout.com.
About Visa
Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions, and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable electronic payments. We operate one of the world’s most advanced processing networks — VisaNet — that is capable of handling more than 65,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and assured payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa’s innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, pay ahead with prepaid or pay later with credit products. For more information, visit https://usa.visa.com/ and @VisaNews.
About Papa John’s
Headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, Papa John's International, Inc. (PZZA) is the world's third-largest pizza delivery company. For 15 of the past 17 years, consumers have rated Papa John's No. 1 in customer satisfaction among all national pizza chains in the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI). Papa John's is the Official Pizza Sponsor of the National Football League and Super Bowl LI. For more information about the company or to order pizza online, visit Papa John's at www.papajohns.com. Also visit us on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/papajohns, Twitter at twitter.com/papajohns, YouTube at www.youtube.com/user/papajohns, Instagram at instagram.com/papajohns and Pinterest at www.pinterest.com/papajohnspizza.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005509/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}