DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Economic and Retail Update H2 2016" report to their offering.
In the aftermath of the shock win for leave in the UK's referendum on EU membership, there has been considerable uncertainty over the short- and long-term impacts on the UK economy. This report provides an overview of the impact Brexit has had on key economic indicators such as GDP, interest rates, unemployment and the housing market, and the subsequent impact on consumer confidence and retail growth and projections.
Key Findings
- GDP growth knocked sideways in 2017, but momentum regains to 2021. In the short term, uncertainty over the final outcome of negotiations will cause businesses to postpone hiring and investment decisions, while consumers will delay purchases of property and rein in discretionary spend particularly on big ticket items, thus depressing GDP growth. In the longer term, reduced trade is likely to negatively affect GDP as lower returns to capital lead to reduced foreign direct investment (FDI), and stagnating wages lead to reduced consumption.
- Interest rates cut, but further cuts unlikely. The widely expected interest rate cut by the Bank of England in August 2016 is unlikely to stimulate a flurry of retail spending. With the immediate impact of the interest rate cut being a drop in the value of the pound, this move is hardly likely to boost flagging consumer confidence, which is a major factor in driving spend.
- Unemployment stable for now, but likely to inch up towards 2021. Unemployment is forecast to slowly inch up towards 2021 as reduced foreign investment and low organic GDP growth reduces opportunities for new job creation, while limiting job progression in current roles with many having to remain in low paid/minimal hours contracts.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Economic update
2. Retail update
3. Methodology
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/xr4ztt/economic_and

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006422/en/