DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Water Treatment Chemicals Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2022" report to their offering.
The global water treatment chemicals market was valued at $16,853.5 million in 2015, and it is expected to grow at a CAGR of 5.6% during the forecast period. In terms of volume, Asia-Pacific accounted for the largest share in the global water treatment chemicals market, with 2,998.6 kilotons consumed in 2015. The major reason behind the growth of the market in the region is the increasing level of urbanization and rapid industrialization.
Water treatment chemicals are chemical compounds utilized to remove the impurities from water. The use of water is tremendously increasing with the rapid urbanization and economic development in emerging nations. The rapid growth of urban population is creating pressure on the existing water infrastructure, which includes the delivery of utility water, and removal and treatment of wastewater. To overcome this situation, various governments in Asia and Africa are expected to increase their spending on irrigation and drinking water schemes.
The rapid industrialization in developing nations has resulted in the increase in trade activities, increase in per capita income, expansion of infrastructure facilities, and growth in several industries, such as chemicals, oil & gas, and energy. The developing economies, such as India and China, are witnessing rapid industrialization. In the current scenario, China is the world's largest industrial producer.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Global Water Treatment Chemicals Market Size And Forecast (2012-2022)
5. Global Water Treatment Chemicals Market, By Geography
6. Competitive Positioning Analysis
7. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/jkzrxg/global_water

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005717/en/