SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Mentor Capital, Inc. (MNTR) announced that today at 4:30PM PST it will be, with its client Puerto Rico medical cannabis and organic hemp corporation GreenVision Systems, on HBO's Emmy Award winning hit series "Vice", produced by Seth Dalton. Check your local listings for HBOE December 1, 2016. The previously planned airing on November 28th was pushed out to today due to reporting on the death of Fidel Castro.
Mentor CEO Chet Billingsley, filmed on location in Puerto Rico, provides analysis of the scope of the Puerto Rican market, including job creation, expected tax revenues, decreases in criminal sector funding and expected future decrease in overdose deaths by the observed substitution effect of up to 20% of harder drugs and alcohol for the more benign legal cannabis use. On medical cannabis, Mr. Billingsley outlines how the mellowing of nervous signal transmission decreases the severity of seizures, tremors, chronic pain, nausea and migraines. He concludes interviews by quantifying the scope of the possible opportunity for client GreenVision Systems founded by the public company StereoVision Entertainment, Inc. and Puerto Rican interests, according to Mentor. CEO Billingsley adds, “Upon the effectiveness of a registration statement with the SEC by GreenVision, Mentor Capital, Inc. intends to dividend its GreenVision ownership out to Mentor’s approximately 4,000 shareholders to allow them to directly participate in ownership of the Puerto Rican cannabis business in addition to their Mentor holdings.”
“Producer Seth Dalton interviews GreenVision's management team about the emphasis on the medical cannabis industry in Puerto Rico since Governor Alejandro García Padilla's emergency decree July 8th 2016 legalizing medical cannabis in Puerto Rico,” stated StereoVision CEO Jack Honour. “GreenVision's COO Walter Marrero Melendez Esq., an attorney and former criminal judge in Puerto Rico, and for the last ten years a leading advocate for the legalization of cannabis and hemp products, speaks at length about the many economic opportunities with cannabis.” In a separate release today CEO Honour reported GreenVision entered into a five-year lease for a 125 acre farming facility in Puerto Rico.
About Mentor Capital: The Company seeks to come alongside and assist private medical marijuana and cannabis companies and their founders in meeting their liquidity and financial objectives, to add protection for investors and to help incubate private cannabis companies. Additional important information for investors is presented at: www.MentorCapital.com.
This press release is neither an offer to sell, nor a solicitation of offers to purchase, securities.
Forward-Looking Statements: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements concerning financial projections, financing activities, corporate combinations, product development activities and sales and licensing activities. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results or performance, are sometimes identified by words of condition such as “should,” “could,” “expects,” “may,” “intends,” “seeks,” “looks,” “moves,” or “plans” and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those intended or anticipated. Such risks include, without limitation: nonperformance of investments, partner and portfolio difficulties, potential delays in marketing and sales, problems securing the necessary financing to continue operations, problems involving continued illegality of cannabis products, potential of competitive products, services, and technologies, difficulties experienced in product development, in recruiting knowledgeable personnel and in protecting intellectual property. Further information concerning these and other risks is included in the Company’s Form 10-K and 10-Q filings which, along with other very important information about the Company, can be found here:
http://mentorcapital.com/disclosures/
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise such forward-looking statements to reflect new information, events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006169/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}