WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Wireless Innovation Forum announced today member approval and public availability of its Spectrum Sharing Committee’s (SSC) highly anticipated signaling protocols and procedures to be used in the U.S. 3.5GHz Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) band for the Spectrum Access System (SAS) – Citizens Radio Broadband Service Device (CBSD) and “Spectrum Access System (SAS) – SAS” Interfaces.
These standards are the first of their kind addressing the new FCC Part 96 rules for CBRS. Publication of these standards represents a major milestone for enabling U.S. commercialization of the band. Access to spectrum under the Part 96 rules is managed in the CBRS band through the use of a Spectrum Access System (SAS), which protects incumbents from interference from lower tier priority access license (PAL) and general authorized access (GAA) users, and protects PAL users from interference from other PAL users and GAA users.
“This achievement by the Wireless Innovation Forum’s Spectrum Sharing Committee is the result of an extensive collaboration among diverse stakeholders working diligently for the past two years. We’re pleased to release standards and solutions that will enable the rapid development of a robust CBRS ecosystem, protect incumbent operations, and benefit all potential stakeholders in the band. These documents will also lay the foundation for all deployments in the CBRS band and possibly other shared bands in the future,” said Prakash Moorut, Co-Chair of the Protocols Specifications Working Group which prepared the documents, and North America Spectrum Lead for Nokia.
In addition to providing definitions, references, and history, elements included in the SAS-SAS Protocol include:
The SAS-CBSD Protocol document also includes references, definitions and history as well as:
Foundational documents published in the past year include: “Interim SAS to CBSD Protocol Technical Report B”; “Interim SAS to SAS Protocol Technical Report B”; “Interim SAS to SAS Protocol Technical Report-A”; and “Interim SAS to CBSD Protocol Technical Report-A”. The newly approved specifications as well as all foundational documents are available here: http://www.wirelessinnovation.org/ssc-public-files.
Announced in February 2015, the SSC supports five working groups, each collaborating working on separate aspects of a common goal: to ensure that the 3.5 GHz band can be successfully commercialized. The SSC working groups are:
Wireless Innovation Forum’s Spectrum Sharing Committee was specifically formed to develop the solutions and standards that will encourage rapid development of the CBRS ecosystem, protect incumbent operations, and benefit all potential stakeholders in the band. The SSC benefits from participation of a broad-based group that includes wireless carriers, network equipment manufacturers, potential SAS Administrators, satellite operators, existing 3650-3700 MHz band licensees, and other parties with an interest in the 3550 MHz band. The committee has formed multiple sub-groups/task groups, including a Joint WG1/WG3 architecture group and an FSS Incumbent Protection Subgroup under WG1. Participation in the committee’s multiple sub-groups/task groups currently encompasses some 277 participants from over 60 different organizations. Work products from the committee can be found here: http://www.wirelessinnovation.org/work-products-and-public-files.
The Wireless Innovation Forum welcomes all interested organizations to participate in our committees. To learn more about membership options or to apply for membership in the group please visit: http://www.wirelessinnovation.org/join.
About the Wireless Innovation Forum
Established in 1996, The Wireless Innovation Forum (SDR Forum Version 2.0) is a non-profit mutual benefit corporation dedicated to advocating for spectrum innovation, and advancing radio technologies that support essential or critical communications worldwide. Members bring a broad base of experience in Software Defined Radio (SDR), Cognitive Radio (CR) and Dynamic Spectrum Access (DSA) technologies in diverse markets and at all levels of the wireless value chain to address emerging wireless communications requirements. To learn more about The Wireless Innovation Forum, its meetings and membership benefits, visit www.WirelessInnovation.org.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006362/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}