LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Global management consultancy, Oliver Wyman, has acquired the business of LShift Limited, an independent software development company, to boost Oliver Wyman Labs, its technology and data offering. The newly combined Oliver Wyman business of dedicated specialists further enhances its expertise and its ability to use innovative approaches to technology and data to drive business impact for clients.
Paul Beswick, Partner and Global co-Head of Oliver Wyman Labs, says: “The mission of Oliver Wyman Labs is to help clients achieve competitive advantage and sustained impact through the power of the information they have, or could capture. With the acquisition of LShift’s business we will be able to further enhance this offering, helping clients on the path to becoming knowledge-powered businesses.”
Andy Wilson, Chairman of LShift, says: "As one of the first companies to use agile methods and empowered engineers to successfully manage large, complex projects with small teams, we are in a unique position to work with Oliver Wyman and take our combined approach to technology to a larger market, helping clients thrive through digital innovation.”
For examples of Oliver Wyman Labs’ work, please click here.
About LShift
LShift was an IT consultancy based in London and Berlin. For the last 15 years they have led the field in running technically agnostic, highly empowered and agile teams across all business verticals. For examples of LShift's prior work, please click here.
About Oliver Wyman
With offices in 50+ cities across 26 countries, Oliver Wyman is a global leader in management consulting that combines deep industry knowledge with specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, and organization transformation. Oliver Wyman is a wholly owned subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies [NYSE:MMC]. Follow Oliver Wyman on Twitter @OliverWyman.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006236/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}