NEWCASTLE, England--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Performance Horizon, the leading global provider of SaaS solutions for partner marketing, today announced its participation in the final event of this year’s Great North Snowdogs Sculpture Trail in a show of further support of St Oswald’s Children’s Hospice. The Grand Auction on December 6 saw the sale of the 61 individually designed Snowdogs that were on display for nine weeks in locations across Tyne and Wear.
Newcastle-based St Oswald’s Hospice provides specialist care to North East children and young adults with incurable conditions. The Great North Snowdogs is the biggest and most exciting public art event in the North East, with local businesses sponsoring large-scale Snowdog sculptures designed by both well-known and undiscovered artists, as well as little Snowdogs designed by local school children. At the end of the event, the large Snowdogs were sold at auction to raise additional funds for St Oswald’s Children’s Hospice.
This year, Performance Horizon sponsored one of the 61 large scale Snowdogs, named ‘Mojo', as well as three smaller pups. ‘Mojo’ was on show at the temporarily renamed ‘Gateshound Metro Station’ and designed by Sumit Sarkar (aka KrikSix), a visual artist based in the North West of England. To help donate additional funds to St Oswald’s, Performance Horizon successfully bid on Mojo at the auction, giving him a forever home at the company’s Newcastle headquarters.
“It was a special honour to play a part in this year’s Great North Snowdogs event by both sponsoring and then bringing Mojo home while at the same time supporting a charity that’s had a positive impact on so many local families,” said Paul Fellows, COO and co-founder, Performance Horizon.
“This year’s Great North Snowdogs Trail and Grand Auction were a great success made possible by the artists, sponsors, auction bidders, schools and entire community that continues to support our mission and vital work we do for children and their families,” said Jane Hogan, Great North Snowdogs Project Lead, and continues, “We appreciate the support by Performance Horizon.”
“Designing Mojo for the Great North Snowdog event allowed me to get very creative and is a project I’ll never forget. It’s great to know that he’s found a permanent home with the Performance Horizon team,” added Mojo’s artist Sumit Sarkar.
About Performance Horizon
Performance Horizon is the leading provider of SaaS solutions for partner marketing, enabling large enterprises to drive significant sales through their online marketing partners and affiliates. The world’s top digital content, retail, travel and financial services companies rely on Performance Horizon’s highly scalable platform to generate over $3 billion in sales across 185,000 marketing partners. The benefits include highly flexible partner management capabilities; real-time measurement and tracking of performance; optimization through deep analytics; and settlement in over 50 currencies in 183 countries around the world. With offices in the U.S., UK, Japan and Australia, Performance Horizon is backed by top-tier investors, including Mithril, Greycroft Partners and DN Capital. For more information, visit http://www.performancehorizon.com or follow @tweetphg.
St Oswald’s Hospice is celebrating providing #30yearsofcare to local patients and families in 2016/17. The charity needs to raise over £7 million each year through voluntary giving and legacies to continue to provide services to the local community. No charge is made to patients for the services provided, ensuring hospice care is available to all. For more information please visit www.stoswaldsuk.org.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005345/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}