RENO, Nev.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Orthopaedic Implant Company (OIC), a medical device company that specializes in high-value orthopaedic implants, announced today the publication of an independent study examining the clinical and economic impact high-value orthopaedic implants have on the market.
“The Clinical and Economic Impact of Generic Locking Plate Utilization at a Level II Trauma Center,” published in the Journal of Orthopaedic Trauma, examines the performance of a hospital’s cost containment program utilizing high-value orthopaedic trauma implants provided by The Orthopaedic Implant Company (OIC). Plates available for the study were pre-contoured, anatomic and variable-angle locking plates indicated for small fragment fractures of the clavicle, radius, humerus, tibia and fibula.
The study compares the cost and outcomes of 828 patients, half of whom received generic implants while the other half received conventional implants. Conclusions found clinical outcomes to be comparable and savings averaged $1,197 per case, or $458,080 collectively.
“We are pleased to see the positive impact our products have had for patients , not just clinically but financially as well,” said Itai Nemovicher, President and CEO of OIC. “Similar to the results seen with generic pharmaceuticals, this study validates the effectiveness that generic implants have in today’s value-driven healthcare environment.”
About Orthopaedic Implant Company: OIC entered the medical device market in 2010 with an innovative approach to delivering the highest quality implants at the lowest possible prices. OIC implants cost 50 to 60 percent less than the average market price of premium implants, saving health care systems millions of dollars a year. OIC’s high-quality, low-cost implants and products can be used for a variety of procedures, including treatment of orthopaedic trauma and spinal injuries.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005134/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}