DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Asia and Australasia Influenza Vaccines Market, Persons Vaccinated, Brand Analysis and Forecast to 2021" report to their offering.
The Asia and Australasia influenza vaccines market is anticipated to reach nearly US$ 1.5 Billion by 2021.
Influenza is a highly communicable disease and typically has the most severe impact on children and the elderly. Influenza viruses are considered as a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The vast population base together with significantly low vaccination coverage in emerging markets, rising government support for immunization and growing awareness of the value of influenza vaccine in preventing disease are the prominent factors that will fuel the growth of the influenza vaccines market.
In the Asia and Australasia influenza vaccines market, Japan accounts for majority of the market share. Japan is expected to remain the clear leader in influenza vaccines market throughout the forecasting period. China is the second leading market for influenza vaccines market. India and South Korea are the third and fourth leading market for influenza vaccines. Australia, Thailand, Singapore and New Zealand are the other leading market for influenza vaccines.
The Influenza Vaccines Market have been analyzed from 5 viewpoints:
1. Asia and Australasia Influenza Vaccines Market, Persons Vaccinated and Forecast (2011 - 2021)
2. Influenza Vaccines Market, Persons Vaccinated and Forecast - Country Wise Distribution (2011 - 2021)
3. Influenza Vaccines Brand Sales and Forecast to 2021
4. Influenza Vaccines Market - Major Deals
5. Influenza Vaccines Market - Driving Factors and Challenges
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Executive Summary
2. Asia and Australasia - Influenza Vaccines Market Analysis and Forecast (2011 - 2020)
3. Asia and Australasia - Influenza Vaccines Market Share Analysis and Forecast
4. Influenza Vaccines Market, Persons Vaccinated and Forecast - Country Wise Distribution (2011 - 2021)
5. Global - Influenza Vaccines Brand Sales and Forecast
6. Influenza Vaccines Market - Major Deals
7. Global Influenza Vaccines Market - Driving Factors
8. Global Influenza Vaccines Market - Challenges
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/3gkp8w/asia_and

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005239/en/