DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Ubiquitin Enzymes: Key Targets and Future Market Potential, 2016-2030" report to their offering.
The "Ubiquitin Enzymes: Key Targets and Future Market Potential, 2016-2030" report provides an extensive study on the current landscape of the evolving pipeline of ubiquitin enzyme inhibitors and offers a comprehensive discussion on the future potential of this market.
Ubiquitin enzymes have been implicated in various cellular processes, such as protein homeostasis, apoptosis, autophagy, DNA damage repair, cell cycle control and senescence. Due to their involvement in multiple metabolic and regulatory functions, any deviations in the normal functioning of the UPS has been shown to lead to the development of diverse types of diseases.
Initial research on the UPS led to the development of several proteasome inhibitors, such as Velcade®, Kyprolis® and Ninlaro®, which are already available in different regions across the globe. However, since these drugs target the entire protein degradation pathway, lack of target specificity renders them potentially harmful and their use has been shown to pose side effects in patients.
Consequently, the focus is gradually shifting from proteasome inhibitors to targeting specific components of the UPS, primarily on ubiquitination enzymes. This is a relatively new segment of the overall market. With no marketed products, the UPS associated enzyme inhibitors/modulators market is still in its infancy. The report primarily focuses on four classes of enzymes that have been shown to possess therapeutic relevance; these include E1 activating enzymes, E2 conjugating enzymes, E3 ligases and deubiquitinases (DUBs).
Currently, the ubiquitin pathway based inhibitors pipeline comprises of over 45 molecules that are under development for the treatment of a variety of indications. In addition, there are several companies that are engaged in the development of screening and validation assays for lead selection, research tools and competent technologies in this field. This unexploited and promising market has its hopes pinned on multiple start-ups, which have received significant financial support from several strategic investors and venture capital firms over the last few years.
Among other elements, the report provides the following information:
- The current state of the market with respect to the key players, phase of development of pipeline products (both clinical and preclinical/discovery), target enzyme classes and the key disease indications.
- Comprehensive profiles highlighting clinical trial details, key preclinical/clinical findings and future market opportunity for the clinical stage (phase I/II, phase II and phase III) ubiquitin enzyme inhibitors.
- Various investments and grants received by companies focused in this area in order to accelerate and support their R&D activities.
- Partnerships that have taken place in the recent past covering product development/commercialization agreements, research collaborations, clinical trial collaborations, license agreements, acquisitions and other such deals between stakeholders in the industry.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Preface
2. Executive Summary
3. Introduction
4. Ubiquitin Enzyme Inhibitors: Market Overview
5. Key Insights: Therapeutic Areas and Potential Targets
6. E1 and E2 Enzymes as Therapeutic Targets
6.3. E2 Conjugating Enzymes as Drug Targets
7. E3 Enzymes as Therapeutic Targets
8. DUB Enzymes as Therapeutic Targets
9. Associated Drug Classes
10. Venture Capital Interest
11. Recent Collaborations
12. Market Forecast and Opportunity Analysis
13. Conclusion
14. Interview Transcripts
15. Appendix 1: Tabulated Data
16. Appendix 2: List Of Companies And Organizations (Partial List)
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/qmn2z7/ubiquitin

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005521/en/