EL PASO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
This year, for the first time, C.H. Robinson is recognizing six North American truckload contract carriers with the Key Carrier of the Year Award. CJ Transportation is the recipient of the award in the 50-100 truck size segment. The company was nominated by its C.H. Robinson carrier representative for the new awards.
CJ Transportation, as well as the other 50-100 truck fleets with Key status in the program, have exceptional service levels, have demonstrated efficiencies through automation and have established relationships with dedicated carrier representatives.
The company was recognized due to the hard work and dedication to the business they do with C.H. Robinson. “When we work with Rebeca, the owner of CJ Transportation, she sees the bigger picture and understands that the challenges or successes of today can lead to growth and ease of business over time,” said Chris Reynolds, C.H. Robinson carrier representative. “CJ Transportation is an incredibly loyal company and has shown this through years of growth and hard work with our office.”
CJ Transportation has 70 trucks, and is headquartered in El Paso, TX. The company has been in business for over 13 years. “C.H. Robinson understands my business and helps support me when working on the complex world of the automotive industry,” said Rebeca Brito, owner of CJ Transportation. “Without their knowledge of this industry and their appreciation of our relationship, we would struggle to remain successful in working together. I am excited that they agree our relationship is an important part of both of our businesses.”
C.H. Robinson’s Carrier Advantage Program supports its 68,000 contract carriers with a three-tier model. The program provides contract carriers earlier access to freight, a dedicated carrier representative, discounts on our Quick Pay program and the ability to submit offers via Navisphere Carrier, C.H. Robinson’s technology platform.
About C.H. RobinsonAt C.H. Robinson, we believe in accelerating global trade to seamlessly deliver the products and goods that drive the world’s economy. Using the strengths of our knowledgeable people, proven processes and global technology, we help our customers work smarter, not harder. As one of the world’s largest third-party logistics providers (3PL), we provide a broad portfolio of logistics services, fresh produce sourcing and Managed Services for more than 110,000 customers and 68,000 contract carriers through our integrated network of 280 offices and more than 13,000 employees. In addition, the company, our Foundation and our employees contribute millions of dollars annually to a variety of organizations. Headquartered in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, C.H. Robinson (CHRW) has been publicly traded on the NASDAQ since 1997. For more information, visit http://www.chrobinson.com or view our company video.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006311/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}