LOUISVILLE, Ky.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Humana Inc. (HUM) has been named America’s Most JUST Company in the Health Care Providers and Services industry, according to JUST Capital and Forbes magazine’s inaugural “JUST 100 List,” which for the first time ranks the publicly traded companies in the U.S. that perform best on the things Americans care most about.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006255/en/ 
Humana ranked No. 1 out of 27 companies in the Health Care Providers and Services industry based on one of the largest surveys ever conducted on attitudes toward corporate behavior, involving 50,000 Americans over the last 18 months. Respondents ranked companies on various aspects of responsible business practices, such as fair pay, business ethics and lack of discrimination. The result is this year’s list, which ranks U.S. companies against their peers within 32 major industries.
“We are honored to be included on the JUST 100 List,” said Tim Huval, Humana Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. “Our commitment to corporate responsibility – as evidenced in part by our work to improve the health of the communities we serve, our inclusion and diversity focus, and the integration of ethics & compliance into the work we do – is a reflection of our core values. We’re pleased to know that Americans recognize that.”
JUST Capital conducted its survey in partnership with NORC at the University of Chicago, an independent research institution that delivers data and rigorous analysis to guide programmatic, business, and policy decisions. JUST then evaluated the performance of over 890 publicly traded companies against the priorities that emerged in the survey and created a ranking model to develop the JUST 100. This selection of companies draws from the Russell 1000 Index, which represents more than 90 percent of the U.S. stock market value.
The six highest-ranked issues by the public, in order, were: providing a fair pay for industry and job level; non-discrimination in hiring, firing, and promotion practices; providing a safe workplace; following laws and regulations; respecting workers; and creating jobs in the U.S. JUST’s scoring system is weighted to reflect the relative importance of the public’s stated priorities.
The inaugural JUST 100 list will appear in Forbes magazine’s December 20th “Impact and Philanthropy” issue.
“The JUST 100 celebrates the best of American business,” said Martin Whittaker, CEO of JUST Capital. “These amazing companies show that in America today the best companies do right by all their stakeholders – and by listening to the voice of the American people. We salute all of the JUST 100 companies and look forward to working with them to help more companies understand that JUST behavior and commercial success can go hand-in-hand.”
Forbes editor Randall Lane said, “The JUST 100 List is the most authoritative, unbiased source of data about how corporations perform on the things people in the U.S. care about most. The list combines powerful insights into how Americans feel about corporate behavior with an unprecedented view of how our leading corporations stack up. We’re thrilled to partner with JUST Capital in recognizing the companies that are leading the way in exhibiting JUST corporate behavior.”
To learn more about Humana’s responsible business practices, read the 2014-2015 Humana Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Ky., is a leading health and well-being company focused on making it easy for people to achieve their best health with clinical excellence through coordinated care. The company’s strategy integrates care delivery, the member experience, and clinical and consumer insights to encourage engagement, behavior change, proactive clinical outreach and wellness for the millions of people we serve across the country.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company’s web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
About JUST Capital
The JUST Capital Foundation (justcapital.com) is an independent nonprofit 501(c)(3), founded in 2013, that is establishing the definitive source of information and rankings on how large publicly traded corporations measure up against the American people’s definition of JUST business behavior. The organization’s mission is to leverage the power of the markets to drive positive change on the issues Americans care most about. Chaired and co-founded by Paul Tudor Jones II, and led by a staff with a breadth of finance, social sector, and technology experience, the Foundation’s board includes Ray Chambers, Jeff Walker, Marc Morial, Ann Veneman, Dan Hesse, Deepak Chopra, and Arianna Huffington, amongst others.
About Forbes Media
Forbes Media is a global media, branding and technology company, with a focus on news and information about business, investing, technology, entrepreneurship, leadership and affluent lifestyles. The company publishes Forbes, Forbes Asia, and Forbes Europe magazines as well as Forbes.com. The Forbes brand today reaches 98 million people worldwide with its business message each month through its magazines and 37 licensed local editions around the globe, Forbes.com, TV, conferences, research and social and mobile platforms. Forbes Media’s brand extensions include conferences, real estate, education, financial services and technology license agreements.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006255/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006255/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}