Asian index futures climbed across the board, tracking gains in the U.S. where benchmarks jumped to fresh records. Bonds in the region advanced with traders awaiting policy updates from two of the world’s biggest central banks over the next week.
Shares in New Zealand opened higher as futures on equities from Japan to Hong Kong foreshadowed gains of at least 0.3 percent. The euro and the yen maintained advances with gold ahead of Thursday’s European Central Bank statement, amid mounting speculation policy makers will extend their asset-buying program. Yields on Australian government bonds due in a decade fell to their lowest level this month after rates on debt across developed markets declined last session. U.S. crude oil is back below $50 a barrel.
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
Expectations the ECB will prolong its bond buying beyond March provided a shot in the arm for U.S. equities , which had been struggling to extend the rally ignited by Donald Trump’s unexpected election win a month ago. Both the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose to fresh records Wednesday, with investors positioning for a continuation of the ECB’s monthly asset purchases of 80 billion euros ($86 billion) despite uncertainty in some corners of the market. Odds on the Federal Reserve tightening further by hiking interest rates remain wedged at 100 percent, according to Fed funds futures.
“There is a real risk of unpleasantness in European bond, equity and currency markets if Draghi doesn’t at least meet expectations,” said Sharon Zollner, a senior economist in Auckland at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd., referring to ECB chief Mario Draghi. “The market is optimistic that the ECB will extend its quantitative easing program at current levels for a further six months.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Slams Boeing Air Force One With ‘Cancel Order!’ Tweet
As well as the ECB review, markets will be digesting an update in Japanese gross domestic product Thursday, as well as Chinese trade data. Thailand reports on consumer confidence and Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will speak at a party for economists.
Stocks
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Asian Stocks to Take Cue From U.S. as Bonds Rally Ahead of ECB on bloomberg.com