WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC) and National Apartment Association (NAA) issued the following statement to congratulate Dr. Ben Carson on his nomination to serve as Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD):
“NMHC and NAA congratulate Dr. Carson on his selection as HUD Secretary. As the voice of an industry that contributes $1.3 trillion annually to the economy, represents more than 12 million jobs and the 39 million who live in apartment homes, NMHC and NAA are looking forward to working with President-elect Donald Trump and his nominee for Secretary of HUD.
“Today, America is facing an enormous deficit when it comes to aligning the supply of apartments with demand. Between 300,000 and 400,000 apartments must be constructed annually to simply keep pace with population growth. Yet, between 2011 and 2015, just 208,000 apartments were developed annually. We are optimistic that with the new Administration and Dr. Carson, we can develop a balanced housing policy that recognizes the importance of a strong housing market for both rental and homeownership.
“The number of families renting their homes currently stands at an all-time high and as many as 4.4 million new renter households will form over the next decade. Therefore, it is critically important that business leaders, the Trump Administration and lawmakers in Congress work together to promote the pro-growth policies that support the apartment housing industry and that make it easier for residents and their families to find the housing that makes sense for them and their communities. A modern, comprehensive housing policy will create millions of jobs and align housing supply with demand.”
Learn more about apartments www.weareapartments.org.
View this release online at www.nmhc.org/Press-Release/Ben-Carson-HUD-Statement
For nearly 25 years, the National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC) and the National Apartment Association (NAA) have partnered on behalf of America’s apartment industry. Drawing on the knowledge and policy expertise of staff in Washington, D.C., as well as the advocacy power of nearly 170 NAA state and local affiliated associations, NAA and NMHC provide a single voice for developers, owners and operators of multifamily rental housing. One-third of Americans rent their housing and 39 million people live in an apartment home. For more information, contact:
NMHC at (202) 974-2300 or info@nmhc.org or www.nmhc.org.
NAA at (703) 797-0616 or croper@naahq.org or www.naahq.org/governmentaffairs.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006333/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}