DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Orthopedic Soft Tissue Repair Market Size And Forecast By Procedure, By Injury Location, And Trend Analysis From 2013 To 2024" report to their offering.
Orthopedic soft tissue repair market is expected to be over USD 9.39 billion by 2024. Rising demand for minimally invasive procedures has provided greater growth prospects for the market. Minimally invasive knee replacement surgery involves lesser disturbance of muscles and tendons, making the reconstruction procedure more natural.
Increasing awareness amongst the population that skeletally immature patients can also tear their connective tissue and ligaments has boosted the growth of the industry. Furthermore, rising awareness regarding the development, commercialization, and promotion of advanced platelet-rich plasma devices would fuel the market in the long run. Hence, this factor plays a pivotal role for boosting the market in the near future.
Technological advancements and innovations continue to be seen in the orthopedic connective tissue repair space. Novel advances, such as innovative surgical techniques, are also visible in the field of Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) reconstruction to make these procedures more effective. Such innovations, developments, and advancements would lead to further growth of the market in the near future. Furthermore, increasing road accidents also are estimated to accentuate the demand for the market to a large extent.
North America contributed toward the largest industry share of around USD 2.0 billion in 2015. The primary factors favoring this growth include investments for developed healthcare infrastructure. This has led to advancements in soft tissue repair surgeries, such as minimally invasive procedures. Moreover, majority of the key players are headquartered in the U.S., which provides a wide market for orthopedic soft tissue repair.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1 Research Methodology & Scope
2 Executive Summary
3 Market Snapshot
4 Market Variables, Trends& Scope
5 Market Categorization 1: Application Estimates & Trend Analysis
6 Market Categorization 2: Type Estimates & Trend Analysis
7 Market Categorization 3: Regional Estimates & Trend Analysis, by Application
8 Competitive Landscape
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/x545rm/orthopedic_soft

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006358/en/