PURCHASE, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Mastercard Incorporated (MA) today announced that its Board of Directors has increased the company’s quarterly cash dividend to 22 cents per share, a 16 percent increase over the previous dividend of 19 cents per share. The cash dividend will be paid on February 9, 2017 to holders of record of its Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of January 9, 2017.
The Board of Directors also approved a new share repurchase program, authorizing the company to repurchase up to $4 billion of its Class A common stock.
The new share repurchase program will become effective at the completion of the company’s previously announced $4 billion share repurchase program. The company has approximately $1.3 billion remaining under the current program authorization.
About Mastercard Incorporated
Mastercard (MA), www.mastercard.com, is a technology company in the global payments industry. We operate the world’s fastest payments processing network, connecting consumers, financial institutions, merchants, governments and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. Mastercard products and solutions make everyday commerce activities – such as shopping, traveling, running a business and managing finances – easier, more secure and more efficient for everyone. Follow us on Twitter @MastercardNews, join the discussion on the Beyond the Transaction Blog and subscribe for the latest news on the Engagement Bureau.
Forward Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this press release, the words “believe”, “expect”, “could”, “may”, “would”, “will”, “trend” and similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the manner and amount of purchases by Mastercard pursuant to its share repurchase program dependent upon price and market conditions, as well as Mastercard’s future prospects, developments and business strategies. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements made in this press release or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in the company’s expectations.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006366/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}