MONTGOMERY, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AngioSoma, Inc. (SOAN) today announces the appointment of Mr. Ken Stephenson as Chief Executive Officer, board member, and President of the company. With extensive healthcare experience with hospitals, health insurance organizations and physician’s offices throughout Texas, Mr. Stephenson provides the management background and experience to help the company take full advantage of our “end to end” solution. Having set up and worked with interventional radiologists and cardiologists’ practices, Mr. Stephenson’s focus will be to bridge the gap between our solution, current standard-of-care treatments, and reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid, and private insurance companies to these medical professionals.
Ms. Alexanderia Blankenship will now be Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President. Ms. Blankenship said, “Working with Ken for the last month and a half, providing him due diligence, and working on AngioSoma, Inc.’s operational plan has been a pleasure. I believe that Ken will be able to accelerate the company’s ability to secure funding, and bring our ‘end to end’ solution to market.”
The “fireside chat” between Chairman Emeritus David P. Summers Ph.D., Ms. Blankenship and Mr. Stephenson will be released shortly on our newly revised website’s home page http://angiosoma.info.
ABOUT ANGIOSOMA, INC.
AngioSoma, Inc. (OTCQB:SOAN, http://angiosoma.info) is a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on improving the effectiveness of current standard-of-care treatments related to pharmaceutical or endovascular interventions. Our “end to end” solution will provide interventional radiologists, cardiologists, and internal medicine physicians with both pharmaceutical and or endovascular interventional options prior to infarction or critical limb ischemic events, stabilizing or reversing the atherosclerotic disease.
Our Soma Nutraceutical Inc. subsidiary aims to provide dietary anti-inflammatory, blood thinning, and anti-clotting natural products, as either stand alone or adjuncts to pharmaceutical care.
For pharmaceutical stabilization, our Liprostin™ product for treatment of peripheral artery disease (“PAD”) completed preliminary U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) required Phase I and Phase II clinical trials successfully and is entering Phase III prior to approval. Our AngioSoma Research, Inc. subsidiary also owns the OmniCath I & II plaque debulking and vessel remodeling atherectomy catheter which will further support the stabilization of patients experiencing infarction or critical limb ischemic symptoms.
For long-term preventative measures, our Transdermal PGE-1 Patch will provide ongoing treatment for chronic cardiovascular disease by delivery of PGE-1 or Liprostin™ through the skin.
In all, we have a robust product pipeline from 20+ years of research and development, with existing patents, provisional patents, formulations, and trademarks from previously successful products.
NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipate” or similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance, or achievements of the company to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In addition, description of anyone’s past success is no guarantee of future success. This news release speaks as of the date first set forth above and the company assumes no responsibility to update the information included herein for events occurring after the date hereof.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005093/en/