LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Television audiences across the world are wholeheartedly embracing online pay-TV, as the proportion of consumers with Over-the-Top (OTT) subscriptions has leapt from 25% to 45% in just 12 months with even more planning to sign up prior to Christmas, new research from subscription, billing and CRM specialist Paywizard reveals. The study also reveals 30% of all consumers surveyed intend to subscribe to pay-OTT services such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Instant Video and Hulu in the run-up to Christmas this year, up from 27% in 2015 – with 18% planning on subscribing for the first time and 12% on top of existing subscriptions.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005619/en/ 
The research into TV viewing trends during the Christmas period shows the projected surge in OTT uptake is taking place as 59% of the 6,242 consumers surveyed plan to watch more TV overall this festive season. The study, conducted by Research Now and commissioned by Paywizard for the second year running, includes results from six bellwether television markets around the globe: the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Brazil, Australia and Singapore.
While Christmas 2016 looks strong for OTT operators, as the projected new subscriber figures (18%) added to those for existing customers (45%) would take the total percentage of subscribers to 63% after Christmas. However, the findings also reveal that 50% of those planning to take an OTT service for the first time this holiday season intend to cancel their subscription within six months.
Bhavesh Vaghela, Paywizard’s Chief Marketing Officer, comments: “There are definitely huge opportunities for OTT players to build on the momentum paid video-on-demand services are showing across all markets. Nonetheless, while OTT operators are poised for another huge lift this Christmas, it is clear that subscribers view these services as an activity they can dip in and out of. Keeping customers loyal is the major challenge facing providers. As OTT adoption nears the 60% range, operators need to address every point of the customer journey and work harder to keep new and old subscribers alike.”
The research also indicates that despite global OTT brands Netflix and Amazon Prime driving pay- OTT growth, the trend is also creating opportunities for local operators, as native challenger brands such as Foxtel Play in Australia, Maxdome in Germany and Now TV in the UK show strong potential – with 32%, 22%, and 19% respectively of first-time subscribers planning to sign up to these services this Christmas.
Vaghela notes: “The research provides powerful evidence that the pay-TV sector is a dynamic and rapidly changing marketplace, where incumbency is no guarantee of future success and challenger brands remain on the rise. There is still enormous potential for new and local OTT players to carve their own niche and attract both first-time and multi-service subscribers. The findings make clear that in pay-TV, there is still everything to play for.”
The survey shows more consumers intend to do their holiday television viewing on smart TV sets (85% in 2016 versus 80% last year), while slightly fewer plan to watch on mobile devices, which include smartphones, tablets and laptops (46% versus 42% in 2015) – which tracks with industry figures showing stronger sales of smart TVs with built-in OTT compatibility.
Other key findings include:
“Clearly, no OTT operator can take continued growth for granted but must find ways to build brand and strengthen loyalty,” Vaghela says. “Increasingly providers need to look beyond their content offering and use data-based insights to engage subscribers at the right time, with packages that meet their needs, while providing a positive overall customer experience.”
For more research results, download the full report, entitled OTT isn’t just for Christmas: The Gift that Keeps on Giving by clicking here.
About Paywizard
Paywizard has been supporting subscription-based businesses for over 18 years. Our experience is real. Helping over 100 Pay-TV operators including: ITV, eir Sport, BT Sport, and BoxNation.
We know what it takes to acquire, grow and retain paying customers. This insight is deeply embedded in all that we do.
With over ten million customers acquired, our Paywizard Agile Platform delivers advanced subscription, billing and CRM with performance marketing modules.
When combined with our consulting services and expertise, we’ve helped our clients deliver inbound acquisition rates of up to 90%, outbound campaigns driving up to 25% conversions, and churn reduction programmes achieving turn-around figures of up to 60%.
Ultimately we deliver personalised experiences across each customer moment. The result: happy and engaged customers.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005619/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005619/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}