Singapore plans to bar former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker Tim Leissner from its securities industry for 10 years and fined  Standard Chartered Plc and Coutts & Co. over breaches related to a scandal-plagued Malaysian sovereign fund.
Leissner, who left Goldman in February, was sanctioned because he issued an unauthorized reference letter on behalf of  Low Taek Jho, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said in a statement on Friday. Low, a Malaysian financier, has been linked to alleged efforts to siphon billions of dollars from 1Malaysia Development Bhd.
More from Bloomberg.com: OPEC Confounds Skeptics, Agrees to First Oil Cuts in 8 Years
Besides serving notice of its intention to issue a so-called prohibition order against Leissner, the MAS fined Standard Chartered S$5.2 million ($3.6 million) and Coutts S$2.4 million.
The penalties are the latest the MAS has handed down to address the damage to Singapore’s reputation caused by anti-money laundering lapses linked to 1MDB. The regulator withdrew the banking licenses of Falcon Private Bank and BSI SA’s local units earlier this year and fined UBS Group AG and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. a combined total of S$2.3 million.
“These actions send a strong signal that we will not tolerate the abuse of Singapore’s financial system for illicit purposes,” MAS Managing Director Ravi Menon said in the statement. “The supervisory investigations into the intricate web of international fund flows has been a learning experience for financial institutions as well as for MAS. Our financial sector will emerge cleaner and stronger.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Global Bonds Suffer Worst Monthly Meltdown as $1.7 Trillion Lost
The regulator said it’s nearing completion of its examinations of financial institutions in Singapore through which 1MDB-related fund flows took place, and will provide a final update in early 2017.
The city-state has charged four people, including three former BSI bankers, for their roles in transactions and money flows linked to 1MDB.
Allegations that billions of dollars have been improperly siphoned out of the Malaysian fund has led to investigations across the globe including by Swiss and U.S. authorities. The U.S. Department of Justice said in July that more than $3.5 billion was misappropriated from 1MDB, as the agency sought to seize about $1 billion of assets it claims was laundered through the U.S. banking system.
Five wire transfers totaling $636 million were sent between May and December 2012 from a bank account of a company registered in the British Virgin Islands to an account at Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore held in the name of Blackstone Asia Real Estate Partners, the DOJ alleged in a suit filed on July 20.
More from Bloomberg.com: Wall Street Wins Again as Trump Picks Bankers, Billionaires
The Blackstone account, not related to Blackstone Group LP, was controlled by Eric Tan Kim Loong, said the DOJ, which described Tan as “a close associate” of Low. The Singapore police has named Low a “key person of interest” in a money-laundering probe related to 1MDB.
1MDB has consistently denied wrongdoing and Malaysia’s government has said it will cooperate with lawful investigations of local companies or its citizens in relation to the fund.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Singapore Sanctions Ex-Goldman Banker Leissner After 1MDB Probe on bloomberg.com