RIVERWOODS, Ill. & MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Digital River World Payments, a leading global payments service provider, is now an acquirer for cards that run on the Discover Global Network, the third largest payments network in the world1 and part of Discover Financial Services. Merchants in licensed territories using the Digital River World Payments solution can now accept international online payments from Discover, Diners Club and network-to-network partner cards.
“Discover Global Network continues to serve our cardholders by growing our global acceptance footprint,” said Ricardo Leite, vice president, Discover Global Network. “Our relationship with Digital River World Payments will help build digital acceptance for Discover, Diners Club and our network-to-network partners across Europe, Asia and South America.”
“Digital River World Payments is committed to offering our merchants payment options that differentiate and propel their business worldwide,” said Hayden Reed, senior vice president and general manager of Digital River World Payments. “Discover, and the numerous local and regional card brands that are enabled across the Discover Global Network, provide a rich and robust set of consumer payment options. This shared alignment of affording choice and reach is the foundation for our global acquiring partnership.”
About DiscoverDiscover Financial Services (DFS) is a direct banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company issues the Discover card, America’s cash rewards pioneer, and offers private student loans, personal loans, home equity loans, checking and savings accounts and certificates of deposit through its direct banking business. It operates the Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation’s leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in more than 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit www.discover.com/company.
About Digital River World PaymentsBacked by nearly 20 years of experience, Digital River World Payments is a leading provider of global online payment solutions. Powered by a robust ecommerce payments platform, its solutions support payment activities across more than 170 countries and 140 payment methods – covering global card schemes along with locally relevant brands and payment networks. Digital River World Payments delivers significant value across the full transaction lifecycle while empowering merchants with a single streamlined user interface. Irrespective of their markets, payment methods, or acquiring bank connections, merchants benefit from consolidated reporting, analytics and reconciliation as well as complete back-office integration. To learn more about Digital River World Payments, visit www.digitalriver.com/solutions/payments.
Digital River World Payments is a trademark and Digital River is a registered trademark of Digital River, Inc. All other company and product names are trademarks, registrations or copyrights of their respective owners.
Twitter Tags: #DigitalRiverWorldPayments, @DigitalRiverInc, @DGNbusinessTweet This: #DigitalRiverWorldPayments announces expanded relationship with Discover Global Networks, @DGNbusiness, @DigitalRiverInc
1 Retail Banking and Research, August 2015

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005919/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}