LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The global polyethylene packaging market is expected grow at a CAGR of around 5% during the period 2016-2020, according to Technavio’s latest report.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005046/en/ 
In this market study, Technavio covers the industry outlook and growth prospects of the global polyethylene packaging market for 2016-2020. The market is further categorized into four end-user segments, which include beverage industry, consumer goods industry, food industry, pharmaceutical industry, and other industries.
“There is huge potential for polyethylene packaging in the beverage packaging industry as they offer significant cost advantages due to the fact that they can be easily printed without special coating and lamination which is required for PET bottles,” says Sharan Raj, a lead packaging research expert from Technavio.
Technavio’s transportation and logistics research analysts segment the global polyethylene packaging market into the following geographic segments:
APAC: growth in food and beverage sector to fuel demand for polyethylene packaging
APAC was the leading region in the global polyethylene packaging market in 2015. The packaging industry in APAC is growing at a rate of 5.5% and is responsible for the high demand for polyethylene packaging in the region. The major markets in APAC are China and India. China accounts for the highest share of polyethylene use in the world. In India, polyethylene accounted for 21% of the total plastic used in 2015, and 65% of this was used in packaging applications.
As per the industry analysis, the food and beverage sector in APAC is expected to have a turnover of more than USD 3 trillion in 2016, growing at a rate of more than 10%. The growth in this sector will lead to considerable demand for polyethylene packaging.
Request a sample report: http://www.technavio.com/request-a-sample?report=54797
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
Americas: developing economies in South America to boost market growth
The major markets in the Americas are the US, Brazil, and Mexico. The polyethylene market in the US is fueled by the availability of cheap natural gas-based feedstock from its highly productive shale gas industry, which is used in the production of polyethylene.
More than 82% of the milk in the US is packaged in polyethylene jugs. The market forecast for the US economy envisions a growth rate of 3% during 2016-2017, which is expected to have a positive impact on the polyethylene market in the country.
“South America has developing economies like Argentina, Brazil, and Chile. Argentina and Venezuela are expected to witness high growth during the forecast period, which is likely to have a positive effect on the polyethylene market,” says Sharan.
EMEA: preference for flexible packaging to boost market
The major markets in this region are Italy, Germany, and France. These countries together account for 40% of the total market share of the polyethylene packaging market in the region. The market in EMEA is growing due to the replacement of rigid packaging products with more flexible packaging options and an increase in the use of HDPE films in comparison to that of LDPE films.
Reduced oil prices will affect the economies of OPEC (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) and this may result in slow growth rates in these countries. Thus, the market demand for polyethylene packaging in these countries will grow at a slower pace.
The top vendors in the global polyethylene packaging market as highlighted in the report are:
Browse Related Reports:
Do you need a report on a market in a specific geographical cluster or country but can’t find what you’re looking for? Don’t worry, Technavio also takes client requests. Please contact enquiry@technavio.com with your requirements and our analysts will be happy to create a customized report just for you.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. The company develops over 2000 pieces of research every year, covering more than 500 technologies across 80 countries. Technavio has about 300 analysts globally who specialize in customized consulting and business research assignments across the latest leading edge technologies.
Technavio analysts employ primary as well as secondary research techniques to ascertain the size and vendor landscape in a range of markets. Analysts obtain information using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches, besides using in-house market modeling tools and proprietary databases. They corroborate this data with the data obtained from various market participants and stakeholders across the value chain, including vendors, service providers, distributors, re-sellers, and end-users.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005046/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005046/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}