BROOKFIELD, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fiserv, Inc. (FISV), a leading global provider of financial services technology solutions, today announced the return of Season of Giving, a cause marketing campaign benefitting the 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization Good360. Now through December 31, each time a participating financial institutions’ accountholders receive an e-bill, or use bill pay, Popmoney® or Popmoney: Charitable Giving via online or mobile banking, they are entered to win one of six cash prizes of up to $10,000. Fiserv will also make a total $45,000 donation to national nonprofit Good360 as part of the Season of Giving.
For a list of participating banks and credit unions and more information, including official rules and how to enter, visit SeasonofGivingandReceiving.com.
“This marks the third year that Good360 will receive a donation as a result of the Season of Giving campaign, and these donations have had a measurable impact,” said Howard Sherman, CEO, Good360. “Our nearly 34 years of experience in the responsible distribution of goods means that we can amplify every dollar donated to Good360 to help millions of people in need each year.”
Good360 is a leader in product philanthropy and purposeful giving, connecting companies that have excess goods with nonprofits who need them. Good360 serves a network of more than 48,000 pre-qualified nonprofits both in the US and around the world, and distributes more than $350 million in goods each year, helping millions of individuals, including children, veterans, families, those impacted by disasters and more.
“At U.S. Bank, we invest our time, resources and passion to build and support vibrant communities that allow every person to work toward their possible,” said Reba Dominski, senior vice president of Corporate Social Responsibility at U.S. Bank. “This Season of Giving campaign is a wonderful way to offer digital banking users the opportunity to be part of giving back to the community, while taking care of their daily financial tasks.”
“Serving our members and enhancing and improving our community are integral to our mission,” said John Lund, president and CEO, America First Credit Union. “The Season of Giving fits with our philosophy of serving the community. And it gives our members another compelling reason to use digital banking and payment services to stay on top of their finances during the busy holiday season.”
Fiserv online and mobile bill pay solutions are easy to use and enable customers and members to pay any bill quickly and easily—how and when they want—with same-day and next-day payment options available. With Popmoney, consumers can send money to and receive money from friends, family and others they know or owe using their existing bank account. To learn more about online or mobile bill payment options, visit www.fiserv.com. For more information about person-to-person payments, or to sign up, visit www.Popmoney.com.
In a world that is moving faster than ever before, Fiserv helps clients deliver solutions that are in step with the way people live and work today – financial services at the speed of life. Learn more at TheSpeedofLife.com.
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (FISV) enables clients to achieve best-in-class results by driving quality and innovation in payments, processing services, risk and compliance, customer and channel management, and business insights and optimization. For more than 30 years, Fiserv has been a global leader in financial services technology. Fiserv is a FORTUNE 500 company and in 2016 was honored to be named a FORTUNE magazine's World's Most Admired Company for the third consecutive year. In 2015 the company was recognized among Forbes magazine's America's Best Employers. For more information, visit Fiserv.com.
About Good360
Good360 (http://www.good360.org) is a nonpartisan 501(c)(3) nonprofit that connects companies that have products with nonprofits that need them. Since 1983, Good360 has distributed more than $9 billion in donated goods around the world, helping its network of more than 48,000 prequalified nonprofits strengthen communities and improve the lives of millions of people in need. In 2015 alone, Good360 distributed more than 11,000 mattresses, 11,000 cartons of electronics and office items, 8,000 cartons of toys & crafts and 14,000 cartons of clothing, shoes and accessories to hundreds of thousands of people—and that’s just a fraction of what the organization does each year. Today, Good360 is expanding its impact around the world through new technology that makes giving more efficient and effective. Good360 is proud to partner with corporate donors such as Walmart, UPS, CVS Health Foundation, Nike, IKEA, Sears, Home Depot, Grainger, 3M, Mattel, Crayola, Gap, Inc., ANN INC., Williams-Sonoma and Hilton.
FISV-G

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005394/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}