DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "RTLS Market in the US 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The report forecasts the RTLS market in the US to grow at a CAGR of 44.51% during the period 2016-2020.
RTLS is the technology used to find, track, manage, and identify the geographical position of a target on a real-time basis with the help of nodes or tags and readers. Nodes or tags are embedded in smartphones or navigational devices through which a user can easily track an object. A reader is used to receive wireless signals from the tags through which an object can be located. RTLS works on technologies like GPS, ultra-wideband (UWB), Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and RFID to track the location of objects.
The report has been prepared based on an in-depth market analysis with inputs from industry experts. The report covers the market landscape and its growth prospects over the coming years. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
According to the report, RTLS tags are primarily used in the retail, healthcare, transportation and logistics, and chemical industry for asset tracking. Currently, most of the firms are using RTLS to track assets. It helps them increase efficiency and reduce costs. Cellular networks and satellites are often being used for asset tracking on a real-time basis in outdoor environments.
Key vendors:
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Five forces analysis
Part 07: Market segmentation by solution
Part 08: Market segmentation by technology
Part 09: Market segmentation by application
Part 10: Market drivers
Part 11: Impact of drivers
Part 12: Market challenges
Part 13: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 14: Market trends
Part 15: Vendor landscape
Part 16: Key vendor analysis
Part 17: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/pjwwhp/rtls_market_in

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005966/en/