NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
BlackRock (BLK), a global leader in asset management, proudly announced that for the fifth year in a row, it received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBT workplace equality, administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. BlackRock joins the ranks of 517 major U.S. businesses which also earned top marks this year.
“We are extremely proud to have achieved our fifth consecutive perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index,” said Jonathan McBride, Global Head of Inclusion & Diversity. “At BlackRock, we’re proud to be a trailblazer within the asset management industry, and for the past several years have devoted tremendous efforts to ensure employee equity is paramount on our corporate agenda. We’ve been extremely focused on heralding inclusion – both in our own corporate policies and in support of various amicus briefs for equality.”
“Further, we’re committed to forging relationships with our employees such that they feel totally comfortable being their authentic selves at work. This focus on authenticity helps us become better fiduciaries to our diverse client base, and moreover the best steward of our global talent, who are the true propellant of our success.”
The 2017 CEI rated 1,043 businesses in the report, which evaluates LGBT-related policies and practices including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the LGBT community. BlackRock’s efforts in satisfying all of the CEI’s criteria results in a 100 percent ranking and the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality.
For more information on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index, or to download a free copy of the report, visit www.hrc.org/cei.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is a global leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients. At September 30, 2016, BlackRock’s AUM was $5.1 trillion. BlackRock helps clients around the world meet their goals and overcome challenges with a range of products that include separate accounts, mutual funds, iShares® (exchange-traded funds), and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers risk management, advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of institutional investors through BlackRock Solutions®. As of September 30, 2016, the firm had approximately 13,000 employees in 30 countries and a major presence in global markets, including North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East and Africa. For additional information, please visit the Company’s website at www.blackrock.com | Twitter: @blackrock_news | Blog: www.blackrockblog.com | LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/blackrock
About The Human Rights Campaign Foundation
The Human Rights Campaign Foundation is the educational arm of America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender and queer people. HRC envisions a world where LGBTQ people are embraced as full members of society at home, at work and in every community.
GMC-0212

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005170/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}