LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Goodwin, a leading Global 50 law firm, announced today the expansion of its market-leading Private Equity Practice with the appointment of Mark Soundy and Sarah Priestley as partners in the London office. Soundy and Priestley join Goodwin’s 150 private equity lawyers around the globe.
“Mark and Sarah are outstanding, highly experienced lawyers who will be terrific additions to Goodwin as we continue to build out our global private equity platform,” said David Evans, Chair of Goodwin’s European offices. “Their appointment is an important step in ensuring that we continue to have a best-in-class private equity team that can represent clients across the UK, Europe, Asia and the US.”
“I’m thrilled to be joining Goodwin’s market-leading private equity team, which brings extensive, international experience to its stable of blue chip client relationships,” said Soundy.
Soundy focuses on UK and international M&A work, particularly private equity and complex restructuring work. With more than 25 years of experience in M&A, he has advised a number of leading institutional investors, international businesses and senior management teams, and is also experienced in growth and development capital work. Soundy was previously co-head of Private Equity and Global Head of Private Capital at Shearman & Sterling LLP, and a member of the British Venture Capital Association’s Legal & Technical Committee. A consultant editor of A Practitioner’s Guide to Private Equity, he is a regular commentator on issues relating to international M&A and private equity.
Priestley advises on complex UK, multi-jurisdictional and pan-European M&A and private equity transactions. She advises on the UK corporation tax, VAT and stamp duty aspects of a wide range of commercial transactions, including take privates, private equity investments, private and public company takeovers, corporate restructurings and spin-offs. Priestley was previously London Head of Tax at Shearman & Sterling LLP.
The addition of Soundy and Priestley follows the recent announcement that London-based private equity partner Michael Halford will be joining the firm from King & Wood Mallesons as part of the continued growth of Goodwin’s Private Investment Funds Practice.
These hires reflect Goodwin’s ongoing commitment to developing its global private equity platform as well as its presence in London, where the firm has grown from three lawyers in 2011 to more than 40 lawyers today. In January, Goodwin will move to a new office building at 100 Cheapside, EC2, more than doubling its current space at Tower 42.
About GoodwinAt Goodwin, we use law to achieve unprecedented results for our clients. Our 900 plus lawyers across the United States, Europe, and Asia excel at complex transactions, high-stakes litigations and world-class advisory services in the financial, life sciences, private equity, real estate, and technology industries. We partner with our clients to practice law with integrity, ingenuity, agility and ambition. To learn more, visit us at www.goodwinlaw.com and follow us on Twitter at @goodwinlaw and on LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005751/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}