DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Asia-Pacific Smart Homes & Buildings Market (2016-2022)" report to their offering.
The Asia Pacific smart home and buildings market is anticipated to grow at a CAGR of 37.1% during the forecast period.
The smart homes and buildings market offers superior safety and security arrangements, addressing major concerns of the end users. Automation has allowed round-the-clock self-operated surveillance, which works in a highly efficient manner, providing information through smart applications at any place and any time, minimizing the concerns of consumers.
The trend of the older population living away has given rise to the development of mobile health, addressing the concern of safety and security of the elderly. Mobile health gives easy access to healthcare applications which can be used to monitor the health of the elderly. The development of mobile health is indeed a driving factor for the smart homes and buildings market, as a higher number of nuclear families will lead to higher adoption of the technology and drive revenue flow of the market.
Key Players profiled in the report include Cisco Systems, Control4 Corporation, Leviton Manufacturing Company Inc., United Technologies Corporation, Emerson Electric Co., Honeywell International, Inc. and Siemens AG, Robert Bosch GmbH.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Market Scope & Methodology
2. Market Overview
3. Asia Pacific Smart Home & Buildings Market - By Component
4. Asia Pacific Smart Home & Buildings Market - By Connectivity
5. Asia Pacific Smart Home & Buildings Market - By End Users
6. Asia Pacific Smart Home & Buildings Market - By Products
7. Asia Pacific Smart Homes & Buildings Market - Country Level Analysis
8. China Smart Home & Buildings Market- By Products
9. Company Profiles
Companies Mentioned:
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/pp8rfd/asiapacific.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005668/en/