PARIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
The Rémy Cointreau Group (RCO.PA) is pleased to announce the signing of an agreement for the acquisition of the assets of Westland Distillery.
Westland’s mission is to produce world-class American single malt whiskey. Rooted in one of the world’s best possible climates for barley, Westland crafts a truly authentic single malt whiskey with a sense of place. The distillery is firmly committed to pushing the category of single malt whiskey forward by utilizing new varietals of barley and oak, exploring concepts such as terroir, and championing distinctiveness. In addition, Westland is at the vanguard of the growing American single malt whiskey movement that aims to secure a firm description for the category in the United States and abroad.
With this investment, Rémy Cointreau will expand its portfolio further into the fast growing high-end single malt whisky category. Westland is already recognized as a whiskey of exception having received many awards including this year being named “World Craft Producer of the Year” by Whisky Magazine, while all three of their flagship malts (the American Single Malt Whiskey, a Peated Malt and a Sherry Wood expression) have received scores of 95 points or more within the past year.
The transaction is expected to close before the end of the year.
About Rémy Cointreau:
The Rémy Cointreau Group is a leading operator in the global Wine & Spirits market with sales of €1,050.7 million for the year ended 31 March 2016 and approximately 1,800 employees. The Rémy Cointreau Group, whose origins in the Charente region date back to 1724, is the result of the merger in 1990 of the holding companies of the Hériard Dubreuil and Cointreau families, which controlled E. Rémy Martin & Cie SA and Cointreau & Cie SA respectively. Rémy Cointreau has a portfolio of global, upmarket brands, including the Rémy Martin and Louis XIII cognacs, the Cointreau liqueur as well as the Metaxa, Mount Gay, St-Rémy, Bruichladdich, Port Charlotte, Octomore and The Botanist spirits.
Rémy Cointreau is listed on NYSE Euronext Paris.
About Westland Distillery:
Based in Seattle, WA, Westland Distillery produces whiskey that offers a distinctly American single malt style. Westland boasts a portfolio of high-end single malts, with a price range of between USD70 and USD125.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006514/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} ;}