DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Chemical Warehousing and Storage Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The report forecasts the global chemical warehousing and storage market to grow at a CAGR of 10.80% during the period 2016-2020.
Chemical warehouses are mainly used to store various chemicals used in industries. Most industries produce or use chemicals derived from oil and natural gas. Many intermediate chemicals are also produced during their production processes, which are used in other industries. The storage and handling of different chemicals require trained professionals and highly regulated activities.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global chemical warehousing and storage market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated by the chemical warehousing and storage service providers has been considered to calculate market size.
One of latest trends in the market is increased chemical usage in end-user industries. Chemicals are widely used in many industries. As the demand for the final products of these industries is increasing, the demand for chemicals and thus the demand for chemical warehousing and storage is also increasing. Growth in the specialty chemicals and pharmaceutical segments are driving the market. There is high demand for chemicals used in pesticides and pharmaceuticals from India.
Key vendors:
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Geographical segmentation
Part 07: Market drivers
Part 08: Impact of drivers
Part 09: Market challenges
Part 10: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 11: Market trends
Part 12: Vendor landscape
Part 13: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/hf2hz5/global_chemical

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005734/en/