BASEL, Switzerland--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Axalta Coating Systems (AXTA), a leading global manufacturer of liquid and powder coatings, has invested to expand and to optimize manufacturing capabilities for its Alesta® brand at its powder coatings production facilities in Landshut, Germany due to growing market demand.
The investment supports Axalta’s powder coatings growth strategy and follows progress in its powder coating business in Eastern Europe coupled with increased demand from Central Europe. It is the second investment to expand powder production in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region this year. The first was at Axalta’s Montbrison, France, facility in April 2016, which saw lean automation and upgraded production technology appreciably increase line capacity and productivity.
“Minimal supply time is very important to our customers, and that’s one of the reasons we chose to invest in the Landshut site. Once complete, the additional production facilities will provide significantly greater capacity. This means we will produce even more of our high quality powder coatings for the Austrian, German, Italian and Swiss markets, as well as those in Eastern Europe,” says Matthias Schönberg, Vice President of Axalta Coating Systems and President of its EMEA region.
Axalta’s powder coatings offer outstanding mechanical properties, are highly resistant to weathering and are well-suited for architectural façade applications.
The investments in Montbrison and in Landshut demonstrate Axalta’s commitment over the past two years to further develop capacity and increase productivity in the manufacture of its coatings around the world in order to meet its customers’ needs. The expansion project in Landshut consists of three phases, and is due to be completed by the end of March 2017. Phases one and two concluded at the end of 2015 and in March 2016 respectively.
For more information on Axalta’s powder coatings, please visit www.powder.axaltacs.com.
About Axalta Coating Systems – Celebrating 150 Years in the Coatings Industry
Axalta is a leading global company focused solely on coatings and providing customers with innovative, colorful, beautiful and sustainable solutions. From light OEM vehicles, commercial vehicles and refinish applications to electric motors, buildings and pipelines, our coatings are designed to prevent corrosion, increase productivity and enable the materials we coat to last longer. With 150 years of experience in the coatings industry, the 12,800 people of Axalta continue to find ways to better serve our more than 100,000 customers in 130 countries every day with the finest coatings, application systems and technology. For more information visit axaltacoatingsystems.com and follow us @Axalta on Twitter and on LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005967/en/