ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CACI International Inc (NYSE: CACI) announced today that SmartCEO presented CACI with its GovStar Industry Star award in the large company category at its awards ceremony November 21st. SmartCEO’s GovStar Awards program honors government contractors in the greater Washington, DC region for their technology innovation, workplace environment, growth, veteran support, and impact on the industry and marketplace as a whole.
The Industry Star award recognizes the significant contributions CACI has made to the government contracting industry through mentoring, business partnerships, philanthropy, advocacy, and dedication to its core mission of providing solutions and services that help safeguard the nation and support its customers’ enduring and critical missions to protect the country.
Also recognized at the event was American Cyber Inc., CACI’s protégé company in the Department of Defense Mentor-Protégé Program, receiving both the GovStar Star Performer award in the emerging company category and the Protégé of the Year award. CACI’s leadership has aligned its Small Business Advocacy Office to its business development and operations organizations to maximize and leverage support for strategic programs such as the Mentor-Protégé Program.
According to Gary Winkler, American Cyber, Inc.’s President, “CACI has been, and continues to be, an excellent corporate partner and mentor in the Army/DoD Mentor Protégé Program. This award underscores CACI’s industry leadership and exceptional customer support. We are honored and privileged to be on some of their high-performing teams, contributing to their success while they also help grow the small business community.”
John Mengucci, CACI’s Chief Operating Officer and President of U.S. Operations, said, “CACI understands the importance of leadership, and we take pride in being recognized as a leader in the Mentor-Protégé Program. It is a key CACI initiative to build strategic partnerships throughout our company to support our continued delivery of operational excellence to customers.”
According to CACI President and Chief Executive Officer Ken Asbury, “Since our founding 55 years ago, CACI has been ever vigilant in serving our federal government with innovation and integrity. This includes supporting the government’s goal of ensuring that small firms with strong niche capabilities have opportunities to join companies like CACI in bringing value to critical national missions.”
CACI provides information solutions and services in support of national security missions and government transformation for Intelligence, Defense, and Federal Civilian customers. A Fortune magazine World’s Most Admired Company in the IT Services industry, CACI is a member of the Fortune 1000 Largest Companies, the Russell 2000 Index, and the S&P SmallCap600 Index. CACI’s sustained commitment to ethics and integrity defines its corporate culture and drives its success. With approximately 20,000 employees worldwide, CACI provides dynamic career opportunities for military veterans and industry professionals to support the nation’s most critical missions. Join us! www.caci.com.
There are statements made herein which do not address historical facts, and therefore could be interpreted to be forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in CACI’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, and other such filings that CACI makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Any forward-looking statements should not be unduly relied upon and only speak as of the date hereof.
CACI-Award

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005131/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}