LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Qumu (QUMU), the leader in enterprise video, today announced top-tier Norwegian Investment bank firm Pareto Securities as a new customer, solidifying Qumu’s position as the premier enterprise video provider for the finance industry.
Qumu partnered with software asset management experts Crayon, to deliver a world class solution that combines the Qumu Platform with Pexip’s technology, allowing Pareto to capture knowledge assets across unified communication platforms and to share them with internal and external audiences. “Qumu makes Pareto’s Pexip solution richer and more flexible,” said Thomas Rekdal, Crayon.
“We are making communications with our customers more efficient, ” said Karl Oscar Strøm, Pareto. “We chose Qumu for the ease of use, added functionality and expertise in the finance industry.”
The Qumu Platform enables organizations to communicate externally via digital channels but also to leverage the unified communications ecosystem to record and share internally video content from any virtual meeting.
“Through integrating with Qumu, we can provide our customers with a scalable video solution that extends the value of unified communications,” said Åsmund O. Fodstad, CEO of Pexip.
“The combination of both Pexip and Qumu technologies creates the functionality that helps our customers meet their business goals,” said Torgrim Takle, CEO, Crayon Group.
“As a leader in enterprise video management and delivery, Qumu has been able to help the leaders in this industry enhance communication with video while still protecting their intellectual assets,” said Vern Hanzlik, president and CEO of Qumu.
Qumu has long been a leader in delivering video solutions to the global finance industry, serving as the enterprise video platform provider for 12 of the top 50 financial services institutions.
About Qumu Corporation
Qumu (QUMU) provides the tools businesses need to create, manage, secure, distribute and measure the success of their videos. Qumu's innovative solutions release the power in video to engage and empower employees, partners and clients. Qumu helps thousands of organizations around the world realize the greatest possible value from video and other rich content they create and publish. Whatever the audience size, viewer device or network configuration, Qumu solutions are how business does video. Additional information can be found at www.qumu.com.
About Crayon Group
Crayon is the global leader in software asset management (SAM), cloud and volume licensing and associated consulting services and are trusted advisors to many of the globe's leading organizations. Through their unique people, tools and systems they help optimize their client's technology estates within the new hybrid cloud world. The company has over 1,000 teammates, is headquartered in Oslo, Norway with offices around the world. Additional information can be found at www.crayon.com.
About Pareto Securities
Pareto Securities is an independent full service investment bank with a leading position in the Nordic capital markets and a strong international presence within the energy sectors. Pareto Securities is headquartered in Oslo, Norway, with more than 400 employees located in offices in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, United Kingdom, France, USA, Singapore and Australia.
About Pexip
Founded in 2012, Pexip enables enterprises and organizations to provide video-based communications and collaboration tools to all employees.
The company’s meeting platform enables seamless collaboration across incompatible video and audio technologies such as traditional videoconferencing, Microsoft® Skype® for Business and WebRTC. The unique software provides unmatched capacity and interoperability, and can be deployed in an organization’s data center, or in a private or public cloud such as Microsoft Azure or Amazon Web Services, as well as in any hybrid combination.
Pexip Infinity is used by numerous Fortune 500 companies in a variety of industries. The technology also powers a large number of the world’s Videoconferencing as a Service (VCaaS) providers. The company was named Global Video Conferencing Technology Innovation Award winner by renowned analysts Frost & Sullivan in 2016.
Pexip is represented on all five continents, and has offices in Oslo, London, Sydney, and New York.
Learn more at www.pexip.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130005939/en/