CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Link to Fitch Ratings' Report: WFRBS Commercial Mortgage Trust 2011-C2
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/890862
Fitch Ratings has affirmed eight classes of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (WFRBS) Commercial Mortgage Trust 2011-C2 commercial mortgage pass-through certificates. A detailed list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
In addition, Fitch has issued a focus report on this transaction. The report provides a detailed and up-to-date perspective on key credit characteristics of the WFRBS 2011-C2 transaction and property-level performance of the related trust loans.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The affirmations are based on the stable performance of the underlying collateral pool. As of the October 2016 distribution date, the pool's aggregate principal balance has been reduced by 36.2% to $828.4 million from $1.3 billion at issuance. All loans are performing with no historical delinquency and no loans in special servicing. Eight loans totaling 20.7% of total pool balance are currently defeased.
Stable Performance: Performance of the pool has been stable since issuance with no loans delinquent or in special servicing.
Fitch Loan of Concern: The Aviation Mall loan, which accounts for 2.7% of the pool, has been flagged as a Fitch Loan of Concern due to declining occupancy and historically weak sales. Occupancy has decreased to 78% as of June 2016 from 96.1% as of March 2011. Tenant departures have included major tenants, such as TJMaxx which formerly accounted for 4.8% of NRA and has relocated at a neighboring center.
Substantial Paydown: As of the October 2016 remittance approximately 36.2% of the pool has paid off including five (25.4%) of the original top 20 loans. Additionally, approximately 93.2% of the remaining pool is amortizing with approximately $1.3 million in scheduled principal received October 2016.
Defeasance Collateral: Eight loans totaling approximately 20.7% of the remaining pool are defeased. This includes three of the original top 20 loans (11.6% of original pool balance). In total, 49.4% of the original pool has paid down or is defeased.
High Retail Concentration: Approximately 49.5% of the loans in the pool are backed by retail properties. When excluding the defeased loans, this increases to 59% of the pool. This includes three regional malls which comprise 13.2% of the total pool balance.
Highly Concentrated Pool: The top 10 and 15 loans in the pool account for approximately 61.2% and 75% of pool balances, respectively.
The Aviation Mall (2.7% of the pool) is a 504,675 sf regional mall located in Queensbury, NY, approximately 53 miles north of Albany. The mall is anchored by JCPenney, Bon-Ton. Occupancy at the stores has declined to 78% as of June 2016 from 96.1% as of March, 2011. The decline in occupancy includes the departure of notable tenants such as TJMaxx which formerly occupied 4.8% of NRA. Sales at the stores were historically weak, with the stores reflecting a combined average of $113 psf, $123 psf, and $129 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Fitch's ratings reflect an additional sensitivity related to the Aviation Mall loan (2.7%), which has seen a decline in occupancy. The Rating Outlooks on classes B, C, and D remain positive due to the high amount of amortization and defeasance. Upgrades may occur with additional paydown or defeasance and with sustained stable performance of the Aviation Mall.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10
No third-party due diligence was provided or reviewed in relation to this rating action.
Fitch has affirmed the following classes:
--$112.4 million class A-3 at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$493.2 million class A-4 at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$807.9 million* class X-A at 'AAAsf'; Outlook stable;
--$39 million class B at 'AAsf'; Outlook Positive;
--$43.9 million class C at 'Asf'; Outlook Positive;
--$68.2 million class D at 'BBB-sf'; Outlook Positive;
--$21.1 million class E at 'BBsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$14.6 million class F at 'Bsf'; Outlook Stable.
*Notional amount and interest-only.
Classes A-1 and A-2 have paid in full. Fitch does not rate the class G and X-B certificates.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Rating Caps and Limitations in Global Structured Finance Transactions (pub. 16 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882401
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
North America and Asia-Pacific Multiborrower CMBS Surveillance Criteria (pub. 01 Dec 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/891159
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015704
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015704
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006504/en/