CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed Companhia Siderurgica Nacional's (CSN) Long-Term Foreign and Local Currency Issuer Default Ratings (IDRs) at 'B-'. Fitch has also affirmed CSN's National Scale rating at 'BB-(bra)'. The Rating Outlook remains Negative. A full list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
The 'B-' rating reflects CSN's extremely leveraged capital structure and its limited ability to generate substantial cash flow from its steel business in Brazil. The recovery in iron ore prices and an improved outlook for iron ore from earlier in 2016 have bolstered cash flow generation from its iron ore business, and should place the company in a better position to negotiate asset sales during the next 12 months.
The Negative Outlook continues to reflect high refinancing risk between 2018 and 2020. Fitch's base case assumes that CSN will be able to complete a refinancing of at least BRL5 billion of debt due in 2018 with local banks during the first half of 2017. Failure to progress within this timeframe would result in a downgrade to 'CCC'.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Severe Deterioration in Local Steel Industry; Limited Improvement in 2017
Brazilian steel demand is expected to decline 16% during 2016, reaching 17.9 million tons, after dropping 17% in 2015. Current levels are similar to industry performance of 2009. Given the still poor perspectives for improvement in Brazil's GDP during 2017, local steel demand is expected to recover a modest 3.5%, according to Instituto Aco Brasil. Fitch projects that CSN's local sales volumes will drop by 10% in 2016, after falling by 20% in 2015, and then expand by 5% during 2017, reflecting the restart of its second blast furnace in third quarter 2016 (3Q16).
A bright spot for the local industry is that steel producers have been able to apply consecutive price increases since the end of 2Q16 due to a drop in inventory levels, which have supported improved operating results during 3Q16. In the case of CSN, the company announced 10% price increases in May, June, and July and recently pushed prices up by an additional 5%. Fitch expects price increases of between 8% to 10% during 2017, excluding a more meaningful double-digit increase to automakers.
Challenge to Sustain Rebound in CFFO; Iron Ore Price Dynamics is Key
The deterioration of CSN's operating cash flow largely reflects the combination of sharp declines in steel volumes, low iron ore prices, and high interest expenses. Short-term recovery relies on the ability to continue to pass along price increases in the domestic steel segment, manageable coal costs, and on sustained iron ore prices above USD60 per ton.
Fitch's base case scenario projects CSN's adjusted EBITDA at approximately BRL3.7 billion for 2016 and BRL3.2 billion in 2017, considering Fitch's iron ore price deck of USD45. CSN's operating performance and cash flow generation are largely sensitive to iron ore price. If iron ore prices, which are currently at over USD80, remain robust and average USD60 throughout next year, the company's 2017 EBITDA would be BRL4.8 billion.
During the LTM ended Sept. 30, 2016, CSN generated BRL3.3 billion of adjusted EBITDA, and CFFO of BRL725 million. These results compare with BRL2.9 billion and BRL2.1 billion, respectively, in 2015, which benefited from an extraordinary non-recurring dividend of BRL595 million received from the corporate reorganization of Congonhas Minerios.
Considering the current capital structure and the annual BRL2.9 billion interest burden CSN faces, Fitch estimates CSN's FCF to remain negative at around BRL1 billion during 2017, considering Fitch's iron ore price deck of USD45 per ton. At USD60 per ton, FCF would be positive by BRL460 million.
Fitch's base case scenario considers capex of BRL1.1 billion, which represents a steady decline from BRL1.6 billion in 2016 and 2015. During 2016, CSN efficiently managed working capital, leading to an inflow that resulted in positive operating cash flow. Going forward, working capital requirements will be neutral to negative, as inventories are already at low levels, and accounts receivable might be pressured in order to support continued sales expansion.
Unsustainable Capital Structure; Asset Sale Remains Paramount to Avoid Debt Restructuring
Fitch's base case scenario estimates CSN's net leverage to be around 6.9x during 2016. Absent an asset sale this ratio will increase to 8.4x at Fitch's iron ore price deck of USD45 per ton. Considering the range of iron ore prices of USD50 to USD60 per ton, net leverage could decline to the range of 5.2x to 7.0x during 2017. Per Fitch's criteria, CSN's net leverage was 7.7x as of the LTM period ended Sept. 30 2016, an improvement from 8.7x at the end of 2015, mostly reflecting the impact of appreciation of the BRL on the company's total debt.
Fitch believes the most likely asset disposal to be completed by CSN will be the sale of a minority stake in Congonhas Minerios that could represent an inflow of around BRL8 billion. On a pro forma basis, net leverage ratios during 2017 would decline to 5.7x at Fitch's iron ore price deck of USD45 per ton. Given the range of USD50-USD60 per ton for iron ore prices in 2017, net leverage would be in the range of 3.4x to 4.7x.
Elevated Refinancing Risks
CSN faces an unsustainable debt amortization profile. As of Sept. 30, 2016, CSN reported cash and cash equivalents of BRL5.4 billion compared to total debt of BRL30.3 billion. The company faces debt amortization of BRL2.3 billion in 2016/17, BRL5.6 billion in 2018, BRL14.4 billion between 2019 and 2020 (BRL6.4 billion of cross-border issuances) and BRL8.1 billion after 2021. Fitch's base case scenario assumes that the CSN will be able to roll over at least BRL5 billion of local bank debt during the first half of 2017.
Fitch considers the asset sale to be paramount to avoid a debt restructuring. Successful asset sales of around BRL8 billion would lead to an improvement in leverage ratios during 2018, potentially allowing CSN to refinance its bonds issuances due 2019 and 2020.
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
--1% decrease in steel volumes sold during 2016; expansion of 5% in 2017
--18% increase in iron ore volumes sold during 2016 and 3% increase in 2017
--Average iron ore price of USD56 per ton during 2016 and Fitch's price deck of USD45 per ton in 2017
--EBITDA of BRL3.7 billion in 2016 and BRL3.2 billion in 2017
--Successful refinancing of 2018's local banking debt
--No dividends paid in 2016 and 2017
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The inability to refinance the 2018 local banking debt during 1H17 would lead to a downgrade of CSN's ratings. Further deterioration of the steel industry in Brazil, or inability to proceed with price increases would also pressure free cash flow generation and liquidity, and consequently the ratings.
A revision in the Rating Outlook to Stable could occur if CSN is successful in its 2018 debt refinancing in conjunction with improving industry fundamentals, which would lead FCF stabilization. Rating upgrades would largely depend on the size of the asset sales and solid industry fundamentals.
LIQUIDITY
CSN has historically maintained a robust cash position. Nevertheless, its debt amortization schedule is unsustainable, as highlighted above. As of Sept. 30, 2016, CSN had BRL5.4 billion of cash and marketable securities and BRL30.3 billion of total debt. CSN's debt primarily consists of prepayment export financings (37%), local bank loans (24%), senior notes (18%) and perpetual bonds (11%).
FULL LIST OF RATING ACTIONS
Fitch has affirmed the following ratings:
-- Long-Term Foreign and Local Currency IDRs at 'B-';
-- National long-term rating at 'BB-(bra)' ;
-- CSN Islands XI senior unsecured long-term rating guaranteed by CSN at 'B-/RR4';
-- CSN Islands XII senior unsecured long-term rating guaranteed by CSN at 'B-/RR4';
-- CSN Resources S.A. senior unsecured USD note long-term rating guaranteed by CSN at 'B-/RR4'.
The Rating Outlook remains Negative.
Date of Relevant Rating Committee: Dec. 8, 2016.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com
Applicable Criteria
Criteria for Rating Non-Financial Corporates (pub. 27 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/885629
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016254
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016254
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005715/en/