NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has assigned a 'AAAsf' rating to the class A-1-R notes issued by Apidos CLO XX/LLC (Apidos XX). The Rating Outlook is Stable.
TRANSACTION SUMMARY
Apidos CLO XX/LLC issued class A-1-R, A-2-R and B-R notes (collectively, the refinancing notes) and applied the net issuance proceeds thereof to redeem the class A-1, A-2 and B notes at par (plus accrued interest) on the refinancing date of Dec. 9, 2016. Fitch originally rated only the class A-1 notes.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The refinancing notes have the same terms as the previously outstanding classes except that the stated coupons have changed and the noncall period will end in December 2016. All of the refinancing notes pay floating coupons. Spreads over LIBOR on the class A-1-R, A-2-R, and B-R notes were reduced to 1.33%, 1.80%, and 2.60%, respectively. The class C, D and E notes and the subordinated securities were not refinanced.
The reduction in the cost of the liabilities is viewed as credit positive and no other material changes were made to the capital structure as a result of the refinancing. The transaction is still in its reinvestment period (ending January 2019) and continues to display stable performance since the last review in January 2016. All coverage tests continue to pass, and the rating default rate (RDR) and rating loss rate (RLR) for the current portfolio, plus losses to date, are still lower than the RDR and RLR modelled for the Fitch stressed portfolio at close. As a result, the modelled Fitch stressed portfolio at close continues to serve as a proxy, and updated cash flow model analysis was not conducted for this rating action. Fitch has determined that the rating on the class A-1-R notes shall be assigned at the same rating level ('AAAsf'/Outlook Stable) as the original class A-1 notes.
The loan portfolio par amount plus principal cash is approximately $501 million, as of the November 2016 trustee report. All collateral quality tests, concentration limitations, and coverage tests are in compliance. The current weighted average spread (WAS) is 3.84%, versus a minimum WAS trigger of 3.8%. Fitch currently considers 4.5% of the collateral assets to be rated in the 'CCC' category, based on Fitch's Issuer Default Rating (IDR) Equivalency Map. Additionally, approximately 88.3% of the portfolio has strong recovery prospects or a Fitch-assigned Recovery Rating of 'RR2' or higher.
The Stable Outlook on the class A-1-R notes reflects the expectation that each class has sufficient levels of credit protection to withstand potential deterioration in the credit quality of the portfolio in stress scenarios commensurate with such class's rating.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The rating of the class A-1-R notes may be sensitive to the following: asset defaults, portfolio migration, including assets being downgraded to 'CCC', portions of the portfolio being placed on Rating Watch Negative, overcollateralization or interest coverage test breaches, or breach of concentration limitations or portfolio quality covenants. Fitch conducted rating sensitivity analysis on the original closing date of Apidos CLO XX/LLC, incorporating increased levels of defaults and reduced levels of recovery rates, among other sensitivities. Initial Key Rating Drivers and Rating Sensitivity are further described in the New Issue Report dated March 5, 2015.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10
Form ABS Due Diligence-15E was not provided to, or reviewed by, Fitch in relation to this rating action.
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMS
A description of the transaction's representations, warranties and enforcement mechanisms (RW&Es) that are disclosed in the offering document and which relate to the underlying asset pool was not prepared for this transaction. Offering documents for U.S. CLO transactions do not typically include RW&Es that are available to investors and that relate to the asset pool underlying the security. Therefore, Fitch credit reports for U.S. CLO transactions will not typically include descriptions of RW&Es. For further information, please see Fitch's Special Report titled 'Representations, Warranties and Enforcement Mechanisms in Global Structured Finance Transactions,' dated May 31, 2016.
Fitch has assigned the following rating:
--$320,000,000 class A-1-R notes 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable.
Fitch does not rate the class A-2-R and B-R notes.
Additionally, the following class is marked 'Paid-in-Full' (PIF):
--$320,000,000 class A-1 notes.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com.
Sources of Information:
The sources of information used to assess these ratings were the arranger (Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC) and the public domain
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Global Rating Criteria for CLOs and Corporate CDOs (pub. 09 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/887497
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016256
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016256
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005722/en/