BOULDER, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Navigant Research today announced a new suite of interactive data services that leverage an extensive library of energy industry market research and provide timely analysis and forecast data.
Data Services products offer historical data as well as detailed market forecasts, and highlight the emerging technologies, companies, services, and business models that are reshaping the ways energy is produced and consumed. Using data from across the energy, utility, transportation, and buildings industries, Navigant Research’s new data visualization platform allows users to see selected market forecast data in tabular and graphical formats in order to access the most relevant information needed for decision-making. These customizable products allow users to dynamically create charts, tables, and graphs to visualize trends by specifying desired market segments, manufacturers, product categories, or regions.
“Energy industry decision-makers have an unprecedented need for timely and actionable intelligence in the increasingly dynamic and decentralized markets for energy and transportation services,” says John Gartner, senior research director with Navigant Research. “By combining frequently updated market data and analyst insights with Navigant Research’s unparalleled library of market research knowledge and industry forecasts, Data Services provide critical views of the energy ecosystem from its most granular to most influential aspects.”
Currently, Navigant Research offers four Data Services products, including:
Future Data Services products will provide regular updates to current trends in project investments across specific technologies, such as transportation, smart grid technologies, and smart cities applications. This data, along with Navigant Research’s influential analyst insight, enables clients to anticipate market disruption, understand likely changes in the future product mix, and evaluate the entire market ecosystem of suppliers, influencers, manufacturers, and customers.
For more information about the Data Services offering or a demonstration of a specific product, contact Navigant Research at +1.312.583.6848 or data-services@navigant.com.
About Navigant Research
Navigant Research, the dedicated research arm of Navigant, provides market research and benchmarking services for rapidly changing and often highly regulated industries. In the energy sector, Navigant Research focuses on in-depth analysis and reporting about global clean technology markets. The team’s research methodology combines supply-side industry analysis, end-user primary research and demand assessment, and deep examination of technology trends to provide a comprehensive view of the Energy Technologies, Utility Transformations, Transportation Efficiencies, and Buildings Innovations sectors. Additional information about Navigant Research can be found at www.navigantresearch.com.
About Navigant
Navigant Consulting, Inc. is a specialized, global professional services firm that helps clients take control of their future. Navigant’s professionals apply deep industry knowledge, substantive technical expertise, and an enterprising approach to help clients build, manage and/or protect their business interests. With a focus on markets and clients facing transformational change and significant regulatory or legal pressures, the Firm primarily serves clients in the healthcare, energy and financial services industries. Across a range of advisory, consulting, outsourcing, and technology/analytics services, Navigant’s practitioners bring sharp insight that pinpoints opportunities and delivers powerful results. More information about Navigant can be found at navigant.com.
* The information contained in this press release concerning Data Services is a summary and reflects Navigant Research’s current expectations based on market data and trend analysis. Market predictions and expectations are inherently uncertain and actual results may differ materially from those contained in this press release. Neither Navigant Research nor Navigant undertakes any obligation to update any of the information contained in this press release.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005110/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}