DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Implantable Drug Delivery Devices Market for Oncology, Contraception, Cardiovascular, Ophthalmology, Inflammatory Conditions, Diabetes and Other End-users: 2015 - 2021" report to their offering.
The report covers detailed analysis and forecast for the implantable drug delivery devices market on a global and regional level from 2015 to 2021. The study offers historic data of 2015 along with a forecast from 2016 to 2021 based on revenue (USD billion). The study includes a comprehensive view of the market with the review of market drivers, restraint, and opportunities. It also offers the level of impact of drivers and restraints on the implantable drug delivery devices market between 2015 and 2021.
The study included a detailed competitive scenario and product portfolio of key vendors. The report evaluates Porter's Five Forces model to analyze the different factors affecting the growth of the implantable drug delivery devices market. Moreover, the study encompasses a market attractiveness analysis, which provides the most attractive and least attractive market segments information by product, end-user, and region.
The report includes detailed segmentation of implantable drug delivery devices market based on product, end-user, and region. Implantable drugs infusion pumps are the key product in the implantable drug delivery devices market. On the basis of end-user segment, the market can be classified into oncology, birth control/contraception, cardiovascular, ophthalmology, inflammatory conditions, diabetes and others end-users.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1. Introduction
Chapter 2. Executive Summary
Chapter 3. Implantable Drug Delivery Devices - Market Dynamics
Chapter 4. Global Implantable Drug Delivery Devices Market - Competitive Landscape
Chapter 5. Global Implantable Drug Delivery Devices Market - Product Segment Analysis
Chapter 6. Global Implantable Drug Delivery Devices Market - End-user Segment Analysis
Chapter 7. Global Implantable Drug Delivery Devices Market - Regional Segment Analysis
Chapter 8. Company Profile
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/m3dm53/implantable_drug

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006375/en/