SYDNEY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Nuance Communications, a leading provider of speech and imaging solutions, today announced PDF Converter for Mac version 6, an intelligent solution that empowers Apple users in Singapore to easily convert, edit and securely collaborate with industry-standard PDF files. The software offers a rich set of tools to help users save valuable time, increase productivity and drive more value out of their PDF documents.
The new version of PDF Converter for Mac enables consumers and business professionals to gain control of their PDF documents and processes. Specifically, users can assemble PDF documents from a variety of sources, convert PDFs into editable formats for repurposing, create searchable files from scanned documents, and create and fill out PDF forms. Further, the streamlined user interface running on OS X Yosemite or El Capitan enables users to work more efficiently and effectively.
“PDF Converter for Mac is the smart choice for users to create reliable, accurately retrievable PDF documents,” said Chris Strammiello, vice president, Global Alliances & Strategic Marketing at Nuance. “With PDF Converter for Mac, PDF files are no longer difficult to change. Users can collaborate like never before, exchanging ideas and providing directions by adding notes, text boxes, graphics, and more to PDF documents.”
New Features in Version 6
Included among the new features in PDF Converter for Mac are:
View and correct OCR results – User can now view and proofread the recognised text of a scanned or image-based PDF file and easily correct any word errors. The new auto-deskew feature helps achieve optimal OCR results when performing text recognition on scanned documents.
Improved user interface – The user experience has been improved with a modernised user interface that adopts the new styles introduced in OS X Yosemite. The toolbar now includes the Share button to easily send a document or share it across devices. Users can edit documents faster with the new context-sensitive control-click or right-click menus.
Enhanced annotation tools – Users can communicate their ideas better with a richer set of annotation tools that includes new cloud annotation and freeform highlighting tools. The drawing tools preserve custom settings, such as colour and line style, so mark-ups will look the same every time they are used. Through the enhanced annotation panel, users can easily review all comments on a document in greater detail than ever before.
Create customised stamps that better fit daily tasks – Users can make their own personal stamps featuring the text of their choice and add user, date and time information when stamping. In addition, the software comes with a set of new predefined stamps such as Copied, Paid and Scanned.
Faster application performance – The software delivers faster file opening and saving, and improved scanning performance.
Create interactive PDF forms with signature fields – Users can easily design PDF forms using text fields, radio buttons, lists, submit button, and a new interactive signature field tool. In addition, users can sign such forms with their handwritten signature using a mouse or Trackpad.
Pricing and Availability
Nuance PDF Converter for Mac is available now for $140.00. The software is offered through Nuance’s retail e-commerce and corporate reseller channels. For additional information on features, please visit http://www.nuance.com/products/pdf-converter-mac
PDF Converter for Mac provides accurate PDF conversion to editable Microsoft Office formats using OmniPage®, the world’s leading OCR technology. It includes 256-bit encryption and provides direct saving to the Evernote cloud service. Editing capabilities include search and replace text, text redaction, page numbering, and create and edit table of contents.
Nuance Communications, Inc.
Nuance Communications, Inc. is a leading provider of voice and language solutions for businesses and consumers around the world. Its technologies, applications and services make the user experience more compelling by transforming the way people interact with devices and systems. Every day, millions of users and thousands of businesses experience Nuance’s proven applications. For more information, please visit www.nuance.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006555/en/
 .bwmarginl1 {margin-left: 30.0px !important;} ;}