MCKINNEY, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Advice Local, a leader in local search and digital presence management technologies, today announced the launch of their online reputation management solution. This is an enhancement to their existing review module designed to make it easy to monitor, engage, and analyze business reviews and social mentions, all from a single screen. The product introduces new features to monitor, manage and improve customer relationships.
“We know that today, social mentions, reviews and review management are extremely important to businesses and our goal is to make it easy for everyone to take control of local business reviews, location data and online directory management, and manage it all from a single dashboard,” said Advice Local CEO Bernadette Coleman. “Since 84% of consumers trust online reviews as much as recommendations from friends and family, location data management, especially for reviews, is a vital component of a business’s online presence, reputation and brand.”
The new Reputation Module provides businesses with expanded social media information and allows for a comprehensive review of the entire social presence at a glance. The dashboard displays a consolidated overview of engagement levels, including the following:
“Not only does the Social Reputation tab make it easier than ever for businesses to encourage and collect reviews, but it automatically identifies any negative customer reviews so they can be addressed immediately,” said Coleman. “This gives business owners a better understanding of their customers’ experiences, improves their customer relationships, and allows businesses to efficiently monitor and manage their reputation.”
Reviews are accompanied by a Sentiment Score based on an algorithm combining star rating with customer comments to present a more comprehensive picture of the customer’s reaction. Advice Local’s clients also have the option to subscribe to daily email updates for more detailed reputation data.
For more information about Advice Local or to find out how to become a partner request a demo or call 855-714-7634. Press inquires contact Bernadette Coleman at 214-310-1356 or bcoleman@advicelocal.com.
About Advice Interactive Group
Advice Interactive Group is a local search technology and digital marketing solution provider. More than 300,000 businesses around the web use Advice Local’s digital presence management solution to take control of their data, keep their location information current, and optimize and syndicate their business profiles across the web. This in turn drives face-to-face and digital interactions intended to boost customer engagement, build audiences, and increase sales through an all-inclusive, white-labeled SaaS-based dashboard and marketing platform.
Based in the Dallas/Fort Worth area with more than 70 employees, Advice has been recognized as one of the SMU COX Dallas 100™, is a three-time Inc. 500 Company, and most recently picked up a Web Marketing Association Internet Advertising Competition Award.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006049/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}