FORT WORTH, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Kobi Electric, a leading commercial and industrial energy efficient lighting manufacturer headquartered in Texas, has donated LED tubes to light the JFK Memorial in Fort Worth, Texas, and helped solve a maintenance issue for the facility.
The JFK Tribute was erected through a public-private partnership to recognize the significance of Kennedy’s last public speech that took place in Fort Worth, as well as the importance of his vision and the impact of his leadership. The sculpture is placed within an elegant granite plaza and features photographic displays and selected quotes from a number of JFK’s historic speeches, and Kobi’s LED lamps will be used to backlight the images on the walls of the JFK Tribute.
“When we built the JFK Tribute in Fort Worth, LED technology hadn't advanced enough for us to use in the punishing conditions we were building,” said Downtown Fort Worth Initiatives, Inc., Public Improvement District Director Matt Beard. “When the time came to replace the lights, KOBI Electric introduced their new LED technology to Downtown Fort Worth Initiatives, Inc. and generously donated the material to retrofit the JFK Tribute. We are very pleased with the final product and look forward to working with them again.”
The images were previously lit by fluorescent tubes that needed to be replaced frequently, resulting in pieces of granite being moved and shifted in order to remove burned out fluorescent tubes. By installing Kobi’s T8 LED lamps with an exponentially longer lifespan, the JFK Tribute will remain brightly lit for much longer with much less maintenance required.
“Kobi’s T8 Rewire series of LED lamps were a perfect replacement and should provide the long life and appropriate light that the JFK Tribute site needs,” said Kobi president Nicholas Peragine. “Our company is proud and humbled to be able to play a small role in continuing to remind visitors and residents of Fort Worth of the magnitude of John F. Kennedy’s impact on our country, and the significance of his last appearance that took place in Fort Worth. We believe LED lighting technology is a viable option for any facility that relies on 24-hour dependable lighting sources and is seeking longer life and greater efficiency.”
Kobi T8 Rewire LED tubes are low maintenance and energy efficient replacements for outdated and inefficient T8 fluorescent lamps. Glass LED T8 Rewire models are coated with PET plastic and are NSF food safety certified, and the tubes contain no mercury or lead.
Find more information about Kobi Electric at www.kobielectric.com and more information about the JFK Tribute site at www.jfktribute.com.
Kobi ElectricKobi Electric is a U.S. based LED lighting manufacturer located in Fort Worth, Texas. The company’s goal is to provide quality, affordable lighting products and personal customer service. Kobi Electric designs, engineers, tests and stocks LED bulbs and fixtures at the company’s headquarters in Texas. Kobi products are designed for many applications, including residential, healthcare, education, institutional, churches, hotels, hospitality and warehouses. www.kobielectric.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005914/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}