TOKYO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
WAKUWAKU JAPAN Corporation (headquartered in Minato Ward, Tokyo, Masafumi Kawanishi, president ＆ CEO) has announced, together with JTB Corporation, the development of a series of television programs and travel products that will allow persons outside of Japan to experience the Japanese destinations and services introduced on TV.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006592/en/ 
WAKUWAKU JAPAN will jointly plan and produce, together with Yurayura Kick Corporation and P.D. Network, a new cultural television program, “Japan Travel Maestro” (nihontsujin in Japanese), to introduce premium travel destinations within Japan. Program broadcasting will begin on Saturday, January 7th, 2017, and will feature travel maestros who will compile and present points of rare attraction that exist throughout Japan. These will not be the travel locations that are well known. Instead, the focus will be on introducing travel data geared for those in the know. The featured travel maestros will include professionals who have deepened their knowledge of Japan from magazines like Ray and mina, from Shufunotomo Co., Ltd., and from Japan gastronomy tourism Alliance. Experiences that should be introduced to persons outside of Japan will be presented, offering new wonders and ways to enjoy Japan.
The premium travel that appears on “Japan Travel Maestro” will also become travel packages available from JTB, enabling people to experience these destinations for themselves. These packages will be sold by JTB offices within the broadcast area. The first two programs in the series will be evaluated and ongoing broadcasting considered.
Program Overview
Name: Japan Travel MaestroBroadcast Area: Indonesia, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, Sri Lanka, VietnamScheduling: Saturday, January 7th, 2017, from 6:00 to 6:30 PM, and from 6:30 to 7:00 PM in SingaporeRebroadcasts: Saturday, January 14th, 2017, from 6:00 to 6:30 PM, and from 6:30 to 7:00 PM in Singapore
Episode One: Osaka
Travel on a private cruiser throughout the waterways of Osaka to freely explore the city’s charms. Also experience Osaka’s unique culinary offering: kelp broth. After experiencing the skills needed to shave kelp from an artisan’s introduction, the program will offer exquisite cuisine that utilizes broth from freshly shaved kelp.
Episode Two: The Seto Inland Sea and Shodoshima
Fly from one island to the next in a private Cessna among the many islands that dot the Seto Inland Sea. Drink in the exquisite views of a landscape filled with many islands, and experience the unique cultures that took root there. Various important experiences will be introduced, including the Hishio rice bowl, a dish unique to Shodoshima, and the chance to wear traditional costumes and perform in a rural form of kabuki, a traditional art form.
WAKUWAKU JAPAN Corporation Facts
About WAKUWAKU JAPAN - Official Website: http://www.wakuwakujapan.tv/
WAKUWAKU JAPAN is a locally-oriented channel, broadcasting Japanese content 24 hours per day, in local languages. Programming is used to bring information on the Japan of today to viewers in their respective countries in the hope of increasing interest in and respect for Japanese culture and its localities as well as superior Japanese products. Various promotions also offer viewers the opportunity to experience the wonders of Japan, as WAKUWAKU JAPAN works to foster and expand a Japan boom.
• Countries and Regions where Programming is Underway: Indonesia, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, Sri Lanka, Vietnam

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006592/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006592/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}