LUXEMBOURG--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Intelsat S.A. (NYSE:I), operator of the world’s first Globalized Network, powered by its leading satellite backbone, announced that the Orange Group has renewed an agreement for satellite solutions and support that will bring 3G services to existing customers of Orange Cameroon as well as expand the network’s reach to remote regions of the country.
Orange currently provides 2G services using satellite infrastructure provided by Intelsat. Under the new agreement, the Orange network will expand its geographic footprint and add a 3G offering by leveraging C-band solutions from the Intelsat 22 satellite at 72.1° East. The Intelsat solution optimizes the network to deliver the additional coverage and throughput that Orange needs to expand its reach in remote areas of Cameroon, deliver 3G services and provide more differentiated offerings to its subscribers. Orange will expand its service territory to currently underserved remote regions of the country and deliver data services for businesses in the region, stimulating economic growth in the country.
“Intelsat has been instrumental in our efforts to expand 2G and 3G connectivity throughout Cameroon,” said Bénédicte David, West and Central Africa Regional Director for Orange. “As demand for connectivity grows beyond city centers, communities need faster, more reliable broadband connectivity to support business growth as well as critical healthcare and educational services. With our enhanced infrastructure, we will be able to offer upgraded, differentiated services to our customers, expand our subscriber base and extend our geographic reach to the benefit of those located in less densely populated areas of the country.”
“As part of our ongoing relationship with Orange, we understood that deploying 3G services was a critical component of its business plan,” said Brian Jakins, Intelsat’s Vice President, Africa. “We assessed their network and developed an extension strategy that addressed their performance and business model requirements, providing the additional coverage and throughput they needed to meet their customers’ demands. Using our expertise, Intelsat’s goal is to ensure that our customers are always getting the maximum performance from their network and delivering an exceptional experience to their end users.”
Supporting Resources:
About Intelsat
Intelsat S.A. (NYSE:I) operates the world’s first Globalized Network, delivering high-quality, cost-effective video and broadband services anywhere in the world. Intelsat’s Globalized Network combines the world’s largest satellite backbone with terrestrial infrastructure, managed services and an open, interoperable architecture to enable customers to drive revenue and reach through a new generation of network services. Thousands of organizations serving billions of people worldwide rely on Intelsat to provide ubiquitous broadband connectivity, multi-format video broadcasting, secure satellite communications and seamless mobility services. The end result is an entirely new world, one that allows us to envision the impossible, connect without boundaries and transform the ways in which we live. For more information, visit www.intelsat.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006539/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}