DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global X-Ray Imaging Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2022" report to their offering.
The global x-ray imaging market accounted for revenue of $8.8 billion in 2015, and it is expected to grow at a CAGR of 4.9% during 2016-2022.
The global x-ray imaging market is growing at a significant rate, due to growing geriatric population, increasing prevalence of chronic diseases such as cancer, lung diseases and rheumatoid arthritis, and increasing healthcare expenditure. In addition, the improving healthcare infrastructure in developing countries, such as China and India, and technological advancement in x-ray imaging are also driving the growth of the global x-ray imaging market. The restraints associated with the growth of the global x-ray imaging market include stringent regulations for the approval of x-ray imaging devices and increasing risk of cancer, due to exposure to radiation.
Geographically, North America is expected to maintain its dominance in the global market of x-ray imaging during 2016 - 2022. This is due to increasing healthcare expenditure, growing geriatric population, improved healthcare infrastructure, and growing prevalence of chronic diseases. In addition, the increasing research activity for the advancement of imaging technology is also driving the growth of the North American market.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope And Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Global X-Ray Imaging Market Size And Forecast (2012-2022)
5. Global X-Ray Imaging Market, By Portability
6. Global X-Ray Imaging Market, By Technology
7. Global X-Ray Imaging Market, By End User
8. Global X-Ray Imaging Market, By Application
9. Global X-Ray Imaging Market, By Geography
10. Competitive Positioning Analysis
11. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
12. Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/gfrg4f/global_xray

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006262/en/