Deutsche Bank AG moved the trader leading the wind-down of a $1.1 trillion credit-default swaps portfolio to a role in emerging-market bonds, according to an internal memorandum obtained by Bloomberg.
Aditya Singhal, described as “one of the most profitable traders” at Deutsche Bank’s European credit business, will become head of local markets trading for central and eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, according to the memo. Tijen Gumusdis, co-head of CEEMEA local markets, will become head of flow trading for the region. Charlie Olivier, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based lender, confirmed the memo’s contents.
Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer John Cryan has dumped unprofitable clients, exited countries and pulled back from some trading businesses in an attempt to cut expenses and meet tougher capital rules. This includes selling off a portfolio of complex credit-default swaps to rivals including Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., a process which Singhal helped oversee.
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
“In late 2014, he took responsibility for the wind-down of the EU/US CDS books and subsequently delivered substantial and cost-effective” reductions in the size of the portfolio, head of emerging-market debt trading Sean Bates wrote in the memo. “Aditya Singhal joined Deutsche Bank as a graduate trainee in 2005 and went on to become one of the most profitable traders in the firm’s Western European credit flow franchise.”
Gumusdis’s previous roles included head of trading for Turkey. In her latest role, she helped the business “overcome numerous challenges arising from” the bank’s decision to pull out of some countries and conduct more trading from central locations, according to the memo.
More from Bloomberg.com: Koch Industries Says House GOP’s Tax Plan ‘Could Be Devastating’
Credit-default swaps are insurance contracts that pay out if a borrower defaults on a debt. Investors use them to speculate on the borrower’s ability to repay debt or to guard against losses on the debt. The instruments helped to fuel the 2008 credit crunch and regulators have been trying to make them safer and less opaque.
Deutsche Bank was in talks with JPMorgan, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to sell the last batches of about 1 trillion euros ($1.1 trillion) in credit-default swaps, Bloomberg reported in March. The swaps are uncleared, meaning they will require more collateral under new rules enacted since the crisis.
More from Bloomberg.com: Korea’s Park Impeached as Protesters Vent Anger Over Corruption
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Deutsche Bank Moves Top CDS Trader Amid $1.1 Trillion Wind-Down on bloomberg.com