Former hedge fund manager Xu Xiang pleaded guilty to charges of market manipulation in one of the most high-profile cases to follow last year’s stock market collapse in China.
Xu, known as “hedge fund brother No. 1” for his winning record trading shares, was charged with colluding with relatives, employees and executives at 13 publicly traded firms to manipulate their stock prices between 2009 and 2015, a court in the eastern city of Qingdao said on its official Weibo account.
Two other defendants -- Wang Wei and Zhu Yong -- also pleaded guilty, the statement said. The court will announce sentences at a later date.
Xu’s Zexi Investment Management Co. ran four of the country’s top ten performing hedge funds between June and August last year, the period of the sudden collapse in Chinese share prices, according to the independent ratings company Shenzhen Rongzhi Investment Consultant Co., which tracks China’s fund managers. Zexi’s five funds returned an average 249 percent in the first nine months of last year, a period in which the Shanghai Composite Index fell 6 percent, Shenzhen Rongzhi said.
More from Bloomberg.com: Putin Shows Off Russia's Embarrassing Aircraft Carrier
Xu was detained by police in November 2015 on the highway between Shanghai and Ningbo, in an arrest that was captured in photographs and widely circulated on social media. Police later froze over $1 billion of shares in listed companies with connections to Xu’s investments, according to exchange filings by these firms.
His arrest was part of a wider probe into the causes of last year’s market crash, which wiped about $5 trillion off the value of Chinese equities. The government launched a support operation for local markets, suspended trading in many listed companies, and cracked down on short-selling in an effort to reverse the market drop.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump’s ‘Retribution’ Tax Stirs Questions, GOP Resistance
Before last year’s market crash, Xu already had a reputation as one of the country’s top fund managers. One of Zexi’s five funds were ranked among the top three in China by returns in every year since the firm was founded in 2009, according to the Economic Daily newspaper’s website.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read China’s ‘Hedge Fund Brother No.1’ Admits Stock Manipulation on bloomberg.com