CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Nationally recognized accounting and advisory firm Baker Tilly Virchow Krause, LLP (Baker Tilly) announced that Ethan Bach, principal and leader of the firm’s management and business technology consulting team, has been named managing partner of Baker Tilly’s national consulting practice effective June 1, 2017.
“Ethan’s forward-thinking leadership will be critical in helping our consulting business reach new heights of visibility, growth and success,” Baker Tilly Chairman and CEO Alan Whitman said. “Ethan is a key asset for the firm and his expanded responsibilities will substantially increase Baker Tilly’s value to our clients.”
Bach has more than 20 years of functional, industry and technical experience working with companies of all sizes. In his role as consulting managing partner, Bach will collaborate and provide guidance to Baker Tilly’s national consulting services teams. He is based in the firm’s headquarters in Chicago.
“Baker Tilly’s consulting practice will continue to serve clients in a wide range of industries, addressing today’s changing regulatory and market needs,” Bach said. “I am very eager to build on the team’s exceptional strength and long track record of success.”
“Baker Tilly has a terrific consulting culture that is laser-focused on our clients’ success. I am looking forward to building upon that great culture and helping to support our vision of becoming America’s finest professional services firm,” Bach said.
About Baker Tilly Virchow Krause, LLP (bakertilly.com)
Baker Tilly Virchow Krause, LLP (Baker Tilly) is a nationally recognized, full-service accounting and advisory firm whose specialized professionals connect with clients and their businesses through refreshing candor and clear industry insight. With approximately 2,700 employees across the United States, Baker Tilly is ranked as one of the 15 largest accounting and advisory firms in the country. Headquartered in Chicago, Baker Tilly is an independent member of Baker Tilly International, a worldwide network of independent accounting and business advisory firms in 141 countries, with 28,000 professionals. The combined worldwide revenue of independent member firms is $3.8 billion.
© Baker Tilly Virchow Krause, LLP

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005110/en/
 .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} ;}