SAO PAULO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the long-term rating assigned to Energia Eolica S.A.'s (Inka) USD204 million senior notes maturing in 2034 at 'BBB-'. The Outlook has been revised to Positive from Stable.
The Outlook revision reflects the project's positive performance in terms of consolidated energy output, at levels above P50 since reaching commercial operation in September 2014, above Fitch's base case expectation. To a lesser extent, the revision also incorporates the project's actual operating expense figures, also below budgeted amounts. A third year of consecutive operating and financial performance above base case expectations may lead to a revision of Fitch's key long-term assumptions, including energy generation haircuts and operating expense budgets.
The rating is driven by Inka's adequate wind certification study, which includes reliable results for long-term correlation, further supported by actual generation levels above P50 until September 2016. The transaction benefits from a 20-year fixed-price power purchase agreement (PPA) with Peru's energy system operator which is partially offset by some curtailment risk as more renewable projects connect to the grid. Stable rating case debt service coverage ratios (DSCRs), averaging 1.34x, are consistent with 'BBB' category ratings.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Moderate Operational Risk: Operation Risk - Midrange:
The rating reflects the risks associated with the operations of wind farm facilities over a 20-year term. Favorably, the project benefits from proven turbine technology and initial operating support from the manufacturer. Plant performance should experience low variability, as Vestas will initially operate the turbines under a 10-year agreement. A six-month operating and maintenance reserve provides short-term liquidity for unanticipated cost escalations.
Low-Variability Wind Resource: Revenue Risk - Volume - Midrange:
Site wind measurements for initial certification were recorded for 5.5 years at one meteorological tower (Mast Talara-1) and 3.75 years at another (Mast Talara-2). The project is located on a flat terrain. Data was long-term correlated with nearby Guayaquil Aeropuerto dataset, MERRA, WindTrends and Reanalysis-2. The independent engineer (IE) opined the long-term hub-height wind speeds estimates are reasonable and that the AWS Truepower model appears to have performed reasonably well at project sites. P50 levels were estimated based on accepted methods. In 2016, AWS revised initial P50 estimates, increasing output by 1.3%.
Fully Contracted Production: Revenue Risk - Price - Midrange:
A 20-year fixed-price PPA with the Peruvian electric grid as off-taker accounts for 100% of the project's generated revenues, which is viewed as a systemic risk, and with credit quality of that of the sovereign (Peru: Long-Term Issuer Default Rating 'BBB+'/Outlook Stable). The project is exposed to penalties to the extent annual energy production falls below a certain threshold. As a partial offset, the concession allows for a one-time reduction in energy production during a four-year period to minimize future penalties. Curtailment risk is low in the intermediate term but could rise as the country derives an increasing share of energy from renewable sources.
Manageable Debt Structure: Debt Structure - Midrange:
The rated debt is fixed-rate, fully amortizing through 2034. The structure includes a six-month debt service reserve account and three-month O&M reserve, providing for adequate liquidity. Distribution lock-up triggers are adequate incentives, set at 1.20x DSCR.
Adequate Financial Coverage
DSCR levels under the base case (P50 adjusted for a 4% haircut) average 1.84x with a minimum of 1.76x. Under the rating case (1YR P90 adjusted for a 4% haircut), DSCRs average 1.34x with a minimum of 1.30x. The resulting coverages fit will within criteria guidance of 1.30x for 'BBB' category ratings.
Peer Analysis
Inka's credit metrics are closely comparable with Mexican projects Oaxaca II and Oaxaca IV, both rated 'BBB-'/Outlook Positive. Key rating factor assessments for the three projects are the same, all at midrange levels. Oaxaca II minimum and average DSCRs are 1.30x and 1.35x, while Oaxaca IV's minimum and average DSCRs are 1.33x and 1.36x.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Positive
--Energy generation levels at or above P50 for a third consecutive year, combined with stability in operating expenses.
Negative
--Energy production consistently underperforming 1yr. P90 levels;
--Operating expenses that are persistently higher than Fitch's rating case projections leading to a deterioration in DSCR to below 1.30x under the rating case;
--Downgrade of Peru's Long-Term IDR below 'BBB-,' reflective of potential deterioration of the system's ability to honor foreign currency PPA obligations.
The notes are mainly secured by a first-priority interest in the collateral, which includes a pledge on all capital stock of the issuer, all project documents, all existing and future tangible and intangible assets of the issuer, all revenue, project, collateral, reserve accounts, and cash or cash-equivalents maintained in the accounts.
CREDIT UPDATE
Energia Eolica S.A. (the project) consists of two wind farms located in the coastal areas of northwestern Peru. The Cupisnique and Talara wind farms have a combined nameplate capacity of 114.035 MW. Overall, the project contains 45 Vestas V-100 (1.8 MW) for Cupisnique and 17 Vestas V-100 (1.8 MW). Project started operations in September 2014 and is owned and sponsored by ContourGlobal.
Vestas is also the O&M provider under a 10-year agreement for a full scope of scheduled and unforeseen maintenance. After the 10-year period, ContourGlobal plans to take over O&M for the remaining life of the concession. The project's 20-year fixed-price contract with the system operator requires Cupisnique to generate 303 GWh/yearly (Capacity Factor 41.6%) and for Talara to generate 119.7 GWh/yearly (Capacity Factor 44.2%).
As of September 2016, the power outputs of both Talara and Cupisnique were slightly higher than P50 levels, reaching 96.3 GWh and 241.2 GWh, respectively; thus, above Fitch's base case. Base case assumptions consider productions levels at P50, while Fitch's rating case considers 1 yr. P90 wind production. Wind generation levels in both cases are adjusted for a 4% haircut over the life of the rated notes.
Average availability levels for both projects were well above Fitch's base case, reaching 99.3% for Talara and 99.5% in the case of Cupisnique.
Throughout 2016, the project benefited from an inflow of USD11.1 million from past invoiced PPA Premiums recognized previously in the balance sheet as accrued revenues. As of September 2016, the accrued revenues balance is USD3.8 million.
Revenue collection is expected to stabilize in the future.
The project's cash flow generation in 2016 and, consequently, average quarterly DSCRs reached 2.23x, above Fitch's base case projections of 1.87x. Higher revenues, due to stronger winds in the region, coupled with lower operating costs and expenses resulted in cash flow after debt service of USD18.9 million.
The issuer distributed USD18 million to the sponsor, having complied with the covenant of 1.20x. As of September 2016, final unrestricted cash balances and reserve accounts totaled USD10.2 million.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'
Applicable Criteria
Rating Criteria for Infrastructure and Project Finance (pub. 08 Jul 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882594
Rating Criteria for Wind Projects (pub. 31 Mar 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/878936
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015991
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015991
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006490/en/