CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Grant Thornton LLP has received a perfect 100 percent score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI) – a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) workplace equality.
The perfect score places Grant Thornton on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s list of Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality.
“This recognition affirms our commitment to providing an inclusive culture for all of our professionals,” said Pamela Harless, chief people & culture officer of Grant Thornton. “We have seen firsthand the power of bringing one’s whole self to work and we are dedicated to creating a workplace where our people can thrive both personally and professionally. Doing so provides the best solutions for our firm and our clients.”
Harless went on to explain that Grant Thornton views diversity and inclusion as strategic advantages. To promote a culture of inclusivity, the firm supports multiple business resource groups (BRGs), including Equality GT – a BRG that fosters an environment that attracts, retains and embraces LGBT professionals.
The 2017 CEI rated 1,043 businesses in the report, which evaluates LGBT-related policies and practices, including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the LGBT community. Grant Thornton’s efforts in satisfying all of the CEI’s criteria results in a 100 percent ranking and the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality.
For more information on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2017 Corporate Equality Index, or to download a free copy of the report, visit www.hrc.org/cei.
About Grant Thornton LLP
Founded in Chicago in 1924, Grant Thornton LLP (Grant Thornton) is the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd, one of the world’s leading organizations of independent audit, tax and advisory firms. Grant Thornton has revenues in excess of $1.6 billion and operates 60 offices with more than 570 partners and more than 8,500 personnel in the United States and at our Shared Services Center in Bangalore, India. Grant Thornton works with a broad range of dynamic publicly and privately held companies, government agencies, financial institutions, and civic and religious organizations.
“Grant Thornton” refers to Grant Thornton LLP, the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not obligate, one another and are not liable for one another’s acts or omissions. Please see grantthornton.com for further details.
About the Human Rights Campaign Foundation
The Human Rights Campaign Foundation is the educational arm of America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people. HRC envisions a world where LGBTQ people are embraced as full members of society at home, at work and in every community.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005446/en/