LINCOLN, Neb.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Crete Carrier and Shaffer Trucking have always been a leader in the industry when it comes to driver pay and benefits. For the past ten years, the National Transportation Institute has awarded Crete and Shaffer a Top Pay Certified Carrier for their overall pay and benefits package. Crete and Shaffer are taking the lead again in recognizing the value of quality drivers. Effective January 1, 2017, Crete and Shaffer national over-the-road drivers will receive a $.01 per practical mile increase in pay.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006352/en/ 
“Our drivers are our most valuable resource. They work hard every day safely serving our customers, and that dedication is appreciated. We lead the industry in CSA scores, retention, and customer satisfaction, and that is because of the quality drivers we have with our family. This pay increase is just one way we are investing in our most valuable resource,” says Tonn Ostergard, president and CEO of Crete Carrier.
Increasing pay is a reflection of the demand Crete and Shaffer are experiencing from customers. During the past four months, miles have been increasing month over month and year over year. This increase in demand is credited toward the excellent service Crete and Shaffer provide to customers. Both companies expect freight demands to continue throughout 2017.
“We understand that benefits beyond the paycheck are equally important to drivers,” says Ostergard. “We lead the industry in both health and retirement packages. We are proud to have no increases in premiums or deductibles for 2017. Single drivers can receive full benefits for only $34 per week, and that includes health insurance from Blue Cross Blue Shield of Nebraska with a low $1,000 deductible, dental, life, and vision. This is a huge benefit. We consciously made the decision to provide great healthcare, no matter what happens this year regarding health insurance. Drivers also have an opportunity to participate in a company match 401(k) retirement program and are automatically enrolled to receive profit-sharing benefits. Last year, we contributed $7.5 million into the profit-sharing program. This is all in addition to guaranteed detention pay, pet policy, and no-cost rider policy. We want our drivers to know how much we appreciate them.”
Additionally, Crete and Shaffer have upgraded half of their trucks in the past 15 months, making the average age of trucks less than two years old.
Crete Carrier Corporation continues to prove itself as a driver-centric employer. As one of the industry leaders in retention, drivers stay with Crete and Shaffer three times longer than the competition. Much of this success is due to the continued efforts to ensure drivers have the miles they want to make the good living they deserve.
About Crete Carrier CorporationFounded in 1966, Crete Carrier Corporation, along with operating division Shaffer Trucking and wholly-owned subsidiary Hunt Transportation, Inc., ranks as one of the largest privately owned trucking companies in the country, offering a full range of transportation services to our customers. For more information about Crete Carrier Corporation, please visit http://www.CreteCarrierJobs.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006352/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006352/en/