WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has asked former Wells Fargo bank employees whose securities registrations were terminated to contact FINRA if they have concerns about the notice filed by Wells Fargo regarding their termination. Recent news reports have highlighted several former Wells Fargo bank employees who believe that they were terminated from the bank for reporting or refusing to engage in allegedly fraudulent account-opening activities. Further, the reports indicate that a subset of these individuals who were also registered with FINRA to conduct securities activities have raised concerns that they did not receive a copy of their Form U5 termination notice within 30 days of being terminated as required by FINRA rules, or that their Form U5 contained inaccurate or incomplete comments related to the reason for the termination.
FINRA wants to review the facts and circumstances surrounding these allegations and has created a dedicated phone line and email address for use by former registered Wells Fargo bank employees to report instances where they believe there are material issues associated with the processing of their Form U5, including the accuracy and completeness of the language filed by Wells Fargo Advisors describing the reason for termination. Qualifying former Wells Fargo employees can contact FINRA at (800) 334-0668 or U5review@finra.org. The dedicated phone line and e-mail address will be available for the next 90 days. Phone calls will be answered between 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. EST Monday through Friday; calls received outside of those hours will be returned.
FINRA, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, regulates all securities firms doing business in the United States. FINRA is dedicated to investor protection and market integrity through effective and efficient regulation and complementary compliance and technology-based services. FINRA touches virtually every aspect of the securities business – from registering and educating all industry participants to examining securities firms, writing rules, enforcing those rules and the federal securities laws, and informing and educating the investing public. In addition, FINRA provides surveillance and other regulatory services for equities and options markets, as well as trade reporting and other industry utilities. FINRA also administers the largest dispute resolution forum for investors and firms. For more information, please visit www.finra.org.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005688/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}