ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Consumer Technology Association (CTA)TM today announced its Call for Proposals for CES AsiaTM 2017. The premier event for the consumer tech industry in China is returning to Shanghai, June 7-9, 2017. The CES Asia conference program features over 40 hours of programming and more than 100 highly sought after industry experts from around the globe who will provide insights on the latest industry trends and innovations. Proposals can be submitted via this form.
“The CES Asia conference program provides speakers exposure to more than 30,000 attendees, including more than 1,100 members of the global media,” said Gary Shapiro, president and CEO, CTA. “The fast-growing technology tradeshow is an ideal platform to engage in discussions crucial to the advancement of consumer tech in the Asian marketplace. We look forward to hearing from the best and brightest in the industry on the CES Asia stage.”
CES Asia is currently accepting proposals framed with an industry-only audience in mind. CES Asia will select the best candidates based on thought leadership in the industry, diverse perspectives and previous speaking experience. Notifications will be sent out by February 28, 2017. Before submitting a proposal, please review the submission guidelines and speaker overview.
Contact wanghuan@shanghai-intex.com for inquiries or questions inside China and CESAsiaconferences@CTA.tech for inquires or questions outside of China.
Featuring 450 exhibiting companies, the global technology industry will be represented at CES Asia across 19 product categories, including new categories such as drones, the Internet of Things (IoT) and virtual reality (VR). Exhibits will span five exhibit halls at the Shanghai New International Expo Centre (SNIEC). For the latest show news and information, visit CESAsia.com.
Note to Editors: Journalists traveling from outside of China will require a J-1 or J-2 visa. For questions about exhibiting at CES Asia, contact Brian Moon at bmoon@CTA.tech or +1 703-907-4351.
About Consumer Technology Association:
Consumer Technology Association (CTA)TM, is the trade association representing the $287 billion U.S. consumer technology industry. More than 2,200 companies – 80 percent are small businesses and startups; others are among the world’s best known brands – enjoy the benefits of CTA membership including policy advocacy, market research, technical education, industry promotion, standards development and the fostering of business and strategic relationships. The Consumer Technology Association also owns and produces CES® – the world’s gathering place for all who thrive on the business of consumer technologies. Profits from CES are reinvested into CTA’s industry services.
About CES Asia:
Owned and produced by the Consumer Technology Association (CTA)TM and co-produced by Shanghai Intex Exhibition Co., Ltd (Shanghai Intex), CES Asia is the premier event for the consumer technology industry, showcasing the full breadth and depth of the innovation value-chain in the Asian marketplace. Key global businesses come to this new event to grow and reinforce their brand by showcasing the latest products and technologies to consumer tech industry executives, foreign buyers, international media and a limited number of consumers from China. Attendees have exclusive access to some of the largest brands from China and around the world, while celebrating the innovation that defines the consumer technology sector.
About Shanghai Intex:
Shanghai Intex Exhibition Co., Ltd was originally the exhibition organizing business of Intex Shanghai, a pioneering exhibition organizer established in 1995. Shanghai Intex is jointly overseen by the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) Shanghai and PNO Exhibition Investment (Dubai) Limited. Starting in 1998, Intex has organized over 100 trade shows and conferences with a sum total exhibition space in excess of 2 million sqm. Shanghai Intex is comprised of professional teams with a wealth of experience in organizing major international events, covering the creative industry, healthcare, lifestyle, advanced manufacturing and consumer electronics.
UPCOMING EVENTS

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006194/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}