SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today Intel Security announced the new integration of the True Key extension with Windows Hello to deliver a seamless multi-factor sign in experience on Microsoft Edge. Now, Windows 10 customers can enable the new True Key app extension integrated with Windows Hello on Microsoft Edge to enjoy an easier and safer way to unlock their online accounts.
In today’s digital world, consumers increasingly live their lives online. In 2015, the internet surpassed more than 1 billion websites with a primary method of verifying a user’s identity being a username and password. By providing built-in multi-factor protection, the True Key app allows users to increase their online security by retiring their bad password habits, and start creating long, strong, and complicated passwords for all their online accounts.
With this integration, Windows 10 users can download the True Key Microsoft Edge extension, connect their True Key app profile and enjoy Windows Hello secure authentication factors. The True Key extension will remember a user’s existing passwords and create new ones, as well as automatically fill in their username and password when logging in to websites or apps.
“The password problem won’t disappear overnight, which is why working with Windows Hello is a big step in the shared vision between Intel Security and Microsoft of a password-free future,” said Richard Reiner, CTO True Key by Intel Security. “By providing True Key app users with enhanced multi-factor protection and support for dynamic web form-filling – we continue to build an application that will encourage better password management and online security.”
To enjoy this more secure and seamless sign-in experience download the True Key extension for Microsoft Edge from Windows Store here, then go to your security preferences and enable Window Hello authentication.
Other key features and enhancements to the True Key app include:
For More Information
About Intel Security
Intel Security, with its McAfee product line, is dedicated to making the digital world safer and more secure for everyone. Intel Security is a division of Intel Corporation. Learn more at www.intelsecurity.com.
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
Windows is a trademark or registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
No computer system can be absolutely secure

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006390/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}