DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (THC) and Centene Corporation (CNC) have signed a new, three-year agreement providing Centene and Health Net members with in-network access to Tenet’s hospitals, outpatient centers and employed physicians in 18 states. The new agreement integrates all of Centene’s and Health Net’s insurance products into a single contract, following Centene’s acquisition of Health Net earlier this year.
“We are pleased to continue our long-standing relationship with Centene and Health Net, and to offer sustained network coverage to members who rely on our providers for high-quality healthcare services,” said Clint Hailey, chief managed care officer for Tenet.
The agreement is effective January 1, 2017, and includes Health Insurance Marketplace/Exchange, TRICARE, Medicare Advantage, Medicaid, Medicare-Medicaid Dual Eligible and the Department of Veterans Affairs Patient-Centered Community Care Program (PC3) products.
“Our members rely on us to offer networks with high-value, high-quality providers and we are pleased that our new agreement with Tenet allows us to achieve this,” said Chris Bowers, executive vice president of markets for Centene.
About Tenet Healthcare
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a diversified healthcare services company with 130,000 employees united around a common mission: to help people live happier, healthier lives. Through its subsidiaries, partnerships and joint ventures, including United Surgical Partners International, the company operates 79 general acute care hospitals, 20 short-stay surgical hospitals and approximately 470 outpatient centers in the United States, as well as nine facilities in the United Kingdom. Tenet’s Conifer Health Solutions subsidiary provides technology-enabled performance improvement and health management solutions to hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, physician groups, self-insured organizations and health plans. For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
The terms "THC," "Tenet Healthcare Corporation," "the company," "we," "us" or "our" refer to Tenet Healthcare Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries or affiliates as applicable.
About Centene Corporation
Centene Corporation, a Fortune 500 company, is a diversified, multi-national healthcare enterprise that provides a portfolio of services to government sponsored healthcare programs, focusing on under-insured and uninsured individuals. Many receive benefits provided under Medicaid, including the State Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), as well as Aged, Blind or Disabled (ABD), Foster Care and Long Term Care (LTC), in addition to other state-sponsored programs, Medicare (including the Medicare prescription drug benefit commonly known as "Part D"), as well as programs with the U.S. Department of Defense and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Centene operates local health plans and offers a range of health insurance solutions. It also contracts with other healthcare and commercial organizations to provide specialty services including behavioral health management, care management software, correctional healthcare services, dental benefits management, in-home health services, life and health management, managed vision, pharmacy benefits management, specialty pharmacy and telehealth services.
Tenet uses its company website to provide important information to investors about the Company including the posting of important announcements regarding financial performance and corporate developments.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006343/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}