CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Nuveen, an operating division of TIAA Global Asset Management, today announced that several closed-end funds declared regular monthly distributions. These funds represent investment strategies for investors seeking diversified sources of cash flow to prepare for and sustain their retirement income needs. For further information regarding fund distributions including earnings, undistributed net investment income, and notices please visit http://www.nuveen.com/cef.
The following dates apply to today's monthly distribution declarations for the following tax-exempt and taxable closed-end funds:
Monthly Tax-Exempt Municipal Distributions
Monthly distributions from Nuveen's municipal bond closed-end funds are generally exempt from regular Federal income taxes, and monthly distributions of single-state municipal funds are also generally exempt from state and, in some cases, local income taxes for in-state residents. Unless otherwise stated in the funds' objectives, monthly distributions of the municipal funds may be subject to the Federal Alternative Minimum Tax for some shareholders.**
Monthly Cash-Flow-Based Distributions
Each of the five taxable funds listed immediately below have adopted a cash-flow based distribution program. Potential distribution sources include net investment income, realized gains and return of capital. If a distribution includes anything other than net investment income, the fund provides a notice of the best estimate of its distribution sources at the time of payment which may be viewed at: www.nuveen.com/CEFdistributions. These estimates may not match the final tax characterization (for the full year’s distributions) contained in shareholders’ 1099-DIV forms after the end of the year.
Under a cash-flow based distribution approach, each fund seeks to maintain an attractive and stable regular distribution amount based on the fund’s net cash flow received from portfolio investments. Fund distributions are not intended to include expected portfolio appreciation; each fund may invest in securities which have cash flow that ultimately may be fully or partially treated as gains or return of capital for tax purposes. You should not draw any conclusions about a fund’s past or future investment performance from its current distribution rate.
The following dates apply to today's monthly cash-flow based distribution declarations for the following closed-end funds:
Quarterly Taxable Closed-End Fund Distributions
The goal of a fund’s managed distribution program is to provide shareholders relatively consistent and predictable cash flow by systematically converting its expected long-term return potential into regular distributions. As a result, potential distribution sources for regular distributions throughout the year include realized gains and return of capital, in addition to net investment income. If a distribution includes anything other than net investment income, the fund provides a notice of the best estimate of its distribution sources at that time which may be viewed at www.nuveen.com/CEFdistributions. These estimates may not match the final tax characterization (for the full year’s distributions) contained in shareholders’ 1099-DIV forms after the end of the year.
Under a Managed Distribution policy, each of the eight funds listed immediately below seeks to maintain an attractive and stable regular distribution amount that, over the long term, matches the fund’s total distributions paid to its total return. You should not draw any conclusions about a fund’s past or future investment performance from its current distribution rate. Actual returns likely will differ from projected long-term returns (and therefore a fund’s distribution rate), at least over shorter time periods. Over a specific timeframe, the difference between actual returns and total distributions will be reflected in an increasing (returns exceed distributions) or a decreasing (distributions exceed returns) fund net asset value.
The following dates apply to today's quarterly managed distribution declarations for the following closed-end funds:
Nuveen provides investment solutions designed to help secure the long-term goals of individual investors and the advisors who serve them. Through the investment expertise of leading asset managers across traditional and alternative asset classes, Nuveen is committed to delivering consultative guidance that aligns with client needs. Funds are distributed by Nuveen Securities, LLC, a subsidiary of Nuveen Investments, Inc. Nuveen is an operating division of TIAA Global Asset Management. For more information, please visit the Nuveen website at www.nuveen.com.
** Nuveen does not provide tax advice; consult a professional tax advisor regarding your specific tax situation. Income may be subject to state and local taxes, as well as the federal alternative minimum tax.
21252-INV-O-11/17

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006518/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwalignr {text-align: right !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadb1 {padding-bottom: 2.0px !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} ;}