BRENTWOOD, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Churchill Mortgage, a leader in the mortgage industry providing conventional, FHA, VA and USDA residential mortgages across 38 states, announced the addition of 24 new employees across its branches in Arizona, California, Colorado, Michigan, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.
In Brentwood, Tenn., Churchill welcomes Chris Spence as a home loan specialist, David Bruce as a mortgage planning specialist and Latrese Flowers as a closing coordinator. The branch also adds Zachary McCollum as an associate developer, Stephanie Rogers as a loan processor and Sean Lewis as a technical support specialist. In Herndon, Va., the lender adds Donna Hale and Salman Ahmad as senior loan processors, Lynda Marie Stewart, Robert Lewandowski and Robert Jenkins as home loan specialists and Annie Tang as an assistant processor.
Cindy Robinson and Krista Northrop join Churchill’s Phoenix branch as a home loan specialist and loan processor, respectively, and Heather Manning and Lindsey Berry join in Grand Rapids, Mich. as home loan assistants. In Portland, Ore., the lender welcomes Nicole Cook as a home loan specialist and Ashley Davidson as an assistant processor. Churchill’s Dallas branch also welcomes William Brewer and Darren Edgar as home loan specialists. The lender also adds Kathy Rex as a home loan specialist in Colorado Springs, Colo.; Mara Coronado-Maller as a home loan specialist and Suzanne Moreton as a loan processor in Orange, Calif.; and Renee Shepherd as a home loan specialist in San Diego.
“The addition of these 24 mortgage professionals, combined with all of our successes this year, gives me a great deal of optimism about the state of the mortgage industry heading into 2017,” said Mike Hardwick, president of Churchill Mortgage. “Every single one of our employees is critical to our mission to serve borrowers with the heart of a teacher and their efforts will propel our ability to make homeownership achievable to families and individuals in communities across the country.”
About Churchill Mortgage
Founded in 1992, Churchill Mortgage is a privately owned company by its more than 380 employees. A full-service and financially sound leader in the mortgage industry, the company provides conventional, FHA, VA and USDA residential mortgages across 38 states. As heard on personal finance expert and author Dave Ramsey’s nationally syndicated radio show, the lender focuses on the right loan product for each borrower, providing the education and tools necessary to ensure borrowers’ financial stability through its consultative approach to lending and strong commitment to local communities. Churchill Mortgage is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Churchill Holdings, Inc.
Churchill Mortgage’s notable achievements include recognitions as a “Top Lender” by Scotsman Guide: Residential, a four-time “Top Workplace” by The Tennessean and a “Top 100 Private Company” and “Best in Business” by the Nashville Business Journal. For more information about Churchill Mortgage, visit www.churchillmortgage.com or follow the company on Twitter @ChurchillMtg and Facebook at www.facebook.com/churchillmortgage.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005686/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}