TORONTO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Foresters Financial™, an international financial services provider, has increased the non-medical face amount limit of its U.S. life insurance products from $250,000 to $400,0001. The limit increase is part of an aggressive new strategy to significantly grow Foresters product portfolio in the U.S. over the next decade.
Products benefiting from the increase include Lifefirst Term Life (issue ages 18-55), SMART Universal Life (issue ages 16-55) and Advantage Plus Whole Life (issue ages 16-55).
“The limit adjustments were designed to meet the rising customer demand for higher face-amounts in the non-med market,” said Eric Miller, Vice-President, US Life and Annuity Sales. “And Foresters is proud to offer these larger face amounts without making any changes to our underwriting process, which is a huge advantage for our distribution partners and customers who will benefit from the time savings and convenience.”
“These changes demonstrate Foresters ongoing commitment to providing our distribution partners with competitively priced products to help them meet the protection needs of families,” Miller continued. “In addition, the Foresters member benefits2 offer so much more – it’s a winning combination that is unique in the marketplace.”
Foresters new non-medical face amount limits were designed to appeal to the family market with features including no increases to premiums, no changes to the underwriting process with no additional underwriting requirements including no fluids or saliva collection, no paramedical examinations and no life event or mortgage requirements.
Furthermore, Foresters distribution partners can submit non-medical business through iPipeline’s iGO e-application3, which benefits both clients and agents as they will receive a point of sale decision by email within just 10 minutes4. This process also expedites commission payments to agents.
In addition to all of these valuable features, insureds will be Foresters members and have access to Foresters Member Benefits for the primary insured and their immediate family members. These benefits, many of which are complimentary, currently include competitive academic scholarships, financial counseling and discounted legal services.
Foresters new non-medical face amount limit increases are available as of December 5, 2016.
About Foresters FinancialForesters Financial™ is an international financial services provider with more than three million clients and members in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, and total funds under management of $34 billion5. With a history of more than 140 years, we provide life insurance, savings, retirement and investment solutions that help families achieve their financial goals, protect their families and improve their communities. For more information, visit foresters.com.
Foresters Financial has assets of almost $14 billion, liabilities of $11.4 billion, total funds under management of almost $34 billion and a surplus of $2.3 billion (all figures in Canadian dollars as of December 31, 2015). For more information, visit foresters.com.
Foresters Financial and Foresters are trade names and trademarks of The Independent Order of Foresters (a fraternal benefit society, 789 Don Mills Road, Toronto, Canada M3C 1T9) and its subsidiaries.
1Products referred to are underwritten by The Independent Order of Foresters (a fraternal benefit society, 789 Don Mills Road, Toronto, Canada M3C 1T9). Insurability depends on the answers to medical and lifestyle questions and an underwriting review based on underwriting requirements and guidelines.
2Foresters Financial member benefits are non-contractual, subject to benefit specific eligibility requirements, definitions and limitations and may be changed or canceled without notice.
3E-App is available for non-medical Lifefirst, Advantage Plus, SMART. Currently available only through the iPipeline iGO e-App platform. E-App is not available in MA, NY and VT. Use existing paramed process where e-App is not available.
4POS will be unavailable Mondays-Saturdays from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. and from Saturday 10:00 pm to Sunday 10:00 a.m. (EST).
5in Canadian dollars as of December 31, 2015

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006037/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}