DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Gastrointestinal Endoscopic Devices Market: Global Industry Perspective, Comprehensive Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Segment, Trends and Forecast, 2015 - 2021" report to their offering.
The report covers forecast and analysis for the gastrointestinal endoscopic devices market on a global and regional level. The study provides historic data of 2015 along with a forecast from 2016 to 2021 based on revenue (USD Billion). The study includes drivers and restraints for the gastrointestinal endoscopic devices market along with the impact they have on the demand over the forecast period. Additionally, the report includes the study of opportunities available in the gastrointestinal endoscopic devices market on a global level.
In order to give the users of this report a comprehensive view on the gastrointestinal endoscopic devices market and to understand the competitive landscape in the market, an analysis of Porter's Five Forces model for the gastrointestinal endoscopic devices market has also been included. The study encompasses a market attractiveness analysis, wherein product segments are benchmarked based on their market size, growth rate, and general attractiveness.
The study provides a decisive view on the gastrointestinal endoscopic devices market by segmenting the market based on product segment and regions. All the segments have been analyzed based on present and future trends and the market is estimated from 2015 to 2021. Based on product segment, the gastrointestinal endoscopic devices market has been segmented into hemostatis devices, biopsy devices, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography devices (ERCP), capsule endoscopes, GI videoscopes, and others.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1. Introduction
Chapter 2. Executive Summary
Chapter 3. Gastrointestinal Endoscopic Devices - Market Dynamics
Chapter 4. Global Gastrointestinal Endoscopic Devices Market - Competitive Landscape
Chapter 5. Global Gastrointestinal Endoscopic Devices Market - Product Segment Analysis
Chapter 6. Global Gastrointestinal Endoscopic Devices Market - Regional Segment Analysis
Chapter 7. Company Profile
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/z4375l/gastrointestinal

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006384/en/