CINCINNATI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Phillips Edison & Company announced today it has signed an incentive agreement with the city of Forest Park, Ohio, a suburb of Cincinnati, for the redevelopment of Civic Center Shopping Center located at the corner of Waycross Road and US-127/Hamilton Avenue. A $35,000 grant has been approved by the city to invest in capital improvements at the shopping center aimed at retaining and attracting retailers.
Anchored by Ollie’s Bargain Outlet and O’Reilly Auto Parts, the 87,757-square-foot shopping center is located ¼ mile south of I-275 in the retail hub of Forest Park. Along with the planned capital improvements to the property, existing and future tenants will benefit from the current foot traffic from national and local retailers such as Youthland Academy, Arby’s, Frisch’s and Subway.
“As part of the agreement, the city will support future tenant recruitments at Civic Center in a manner consistent with its comprehensive redevelopment plan for the community,” said Paul Brehm, Economic Development Director for the city of Forest Park, Ohio. “We look forward to working with the expert team at Phillips Edison on this important project.”
“We are grateful to the city of Forest Park for this partnership and for their support as we work together to add vibrancy to this shopping center and the community,” said Scott Adair, Vice President of Community Partnerships for Phillips Edison.
About Phillips Edison & Company
Since 1991, Phillips Edison & Company has focused on the grocery-anchored shopping center sector. The company has a fully integrated in-house operating platform built on market leading expertise designed to optimize property value and consistently deliver a great shopping experience. Led by a veteran management team, Phillips Edison’s operating platform provides retail services including acquisition, redevelopment, leasing and management of grocery-anchored retail centers. The company’s portfolio currently includes a national footprint of retail properties. The company has corporate offices in Cincinnati, Salt Lake City, New York City and Atlanta. For more information, please visit www.phillipsedison.com or connect with us on LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005398/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}