ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The National Science Teachers Association unveils its inaugural list of “Best STEM Books K-12.” This list—selected by volunteer educators and assembled in cooperation with the Children’s Book Council—provides recommendations to teachers, librarians, parents, and caregivers about the best trade books with STEM content for students in kindergarten through 12th grade.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005735/en/ 
“The books on this extraordinary list represent a wonderful selection of variety, depth, and nuance,” said David Beacom, NSTA’s chief content officer. “Each book reinforces STEM thinking—modeling innovation, demonstrating authentic problem-solving and assimilation of new ideas, all while exploring solutions that show progressive change or improvement.”
Members of the book review panel, made up of STEM educators and literacy professionals appointed by NSTA, selected 31 books for the list from approximately 330 submissions. The panel based their decision on their extensive knowledge and looked for the very best STEM books that they believed would inspire K-12 students. The list of winning titles includes topics that range from Ben Franklin to genetic engineering and features thoughtful stories, exciting explorations, vividly illustrated books, and biographies.
The Best STEM Books K-12 project is a joint venture of several organizations, including the American Society for Engineering Education, the International Technology and Engineering Educators Association, the National Science Teachers Association, the Society of Elementary Presidential Awardees, and the Children’s Book Council. In addition to the website, the list will appear in the March 2017 issues of NSTA’s elementary, middle level, and high school journals for teachers.
About NSTA
The Arlington, VA-based National Science Teachers Association is the largest professional organization in the world promoting excellence in science teaching and learning, preschool through college. NSTA’s membership includes approximately 55,000 science teachers, science supervisors, administrators, scientists, business representatives, and others involved in science education.
NSTA Press produces 25 to 30 new books and e-books each year. Focused on the preK–college market and specifically aimed at teachers of science, NSTA Press titles offer a unique blend of accurate scientific content and sound teaching strategies. Follow NSTA Press on Facebook for the latest information and new book releases.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005735/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005735/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}