RESEARCH TRIANGLE REGION, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Netsertive, a digital marketing intelligence technology company that enables brands and their local channel partners with turnkey, co-op compliant digital marketing capabilities, today announced another milestone in its award-winning momentum in 2016. Netsertive’s continuous success highlights a growing demand among top brands for better alignment with the local retailers they depend on to deliver over 90 percent of their annual sales. Still, an astonishing 93 percent of brands and local retailers admit they’re struggling to align local marketing efforts, contributing to nearly $14 billion in cooperative marketing funds being wasted each year.
Netsertive signed several new customers in 2016, and has reported continued success with top brands, including Serta, Electrolux and Acura, reinforcing the company’s momentum in the automotive, home goods, technology and healthcare sectors. Further, the company has reported a 400 percent revenue growth over the past three years and has expanded its workforce to 250 team members. In 2016, it added two strategic executive appointments: Dave Logan as VP of Products and Debbie Edmondson as VP of Team Development. Moving into 2017, Netsertive will continue to enhance its marketing technology platform, with a focus on deeper campaign analytics and attribution, to meet the advancing needs of brands and their local partners.
“While many leading brands are beginning to see local marketing as a crucial part of their omnichannel strategy, most are still a long way from offering their customers a truly seamless experience in local markets,” said Brendan Morrissey, CEO and co-founder, Netsertive. “Our company has a huge opportunity to help these brands finally bridge the gap between their customers’ digital and physical worlds – and that starts with brands’ engaging and empowering their local retail networks at scale.”
In November, Netsertive – for the fourth consecutive year – earned an impressive ranking in Triangle Business Journal’s list of the 50 fastest-growing private companies in North Carolina’s Research Triangle region. In addition, CEO Brendan Morrissey was named North Carolina’s Tech Innovator of the Year, a prestigious honor awarded by financial consulting firm Grant Thornton, to individuals who have contributed to the long-term success of their company through innovative thinking and steadfast leadership.
About NetsertiveNetsertive is the fastest-growing digital marketing technology platform, revolutionizing how brands and local businesses work together to win local customers. The company’s two complementary solutions, MarketWise™ for Brands and StreetWise™ for Local Businesses, enable cooperative marketing by giving brands the capabilities to activate scaled multichannel local marketing automatically through local partners. The innovative technology is powered by Netsertive's proprietary learning engine, which combines the company's deep industry experience with the collective intelligence of its extensive network of automotive, home goods, technology and healthcare clients to deliver unprecedented campaign speed, performance and value. An award-winning marketing technology company and Google Premier Partner, Netsertive helps brands automate their co-op marketing to ensure localized brand compliance, seamless campaign execution and reimbursement tracking for local partners.
Founded in 2009 and based in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, the company has a history of rapid growth, a world-class team and the strength of venture capital funding from top firms RRE Ventures, Harbert Venture Partners, River Cities Capital Funds and Greycroft Partners. Netsertive was named for the fourth consecutive year to Inc. Magazine’s 5000 fastest-growing private companies, named to the Deloitte Technology Fast 500™ for the second consecutive year, included on Triangle Business Journal’s list of Fast 50 companies and named Triangle Business Journal’s Best Places to Work for the fourth year. The company was also awarded several prestigious honors in 2016 for their work with national product brands, including: 2016 GOLOCAL Award by BIA/Kelsey, Local Visionary Award by Street Fight, a gold award by the Golden Bridge Awards and a silver award by the Stevie American Business Awards. Additional information about Netsertive is available at www.netsertive.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005901/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}