VIENNA, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CEL-SCI Corporation (NYSE MKT: CVM) reported on a communication received today from the staff of the NYSE MKT, its current listing exchange, that it considered the Company to be noncompliant with certain listing requirements based on its quarterly report for the period ended June 30, 2016. The Company has been given the opportunity to maintain its listing by submitting a plan of compliance by January 9, 2017. This plan must advise of actions the company has taken or will take to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by June 11, 2018. The Company intends to submit such a plan by January 9, 2017.
Based on the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016, the Company is below compliance with Section 1003(a)(i), Section 1003(a)(ii) and Section 1003(a)(iii) since it reported a stockholders’ equity deficit as of June 30, 2016 and had a net losses in its 5 most recent fiscal years ended September 30, 2015. Additional information and provisions regarding the NYSE MKT requirements are found in Part 10 of its Company Guide.
Geert Kersten, CEO of CEL-SCI said: “Noncompliance with the rules cited above came about a result of our total market capitalization having fallen below $50 million. The Exchange will not normally consider suspending dealings in, or removing from listing, the securities of an issuer which is otherwise below the stockholders’ equity criteria in the sections noted above but has a market capitalization of at least $50 million. Therefore one of the ways we can regain compliance is by achieving and maintaining market capitalization of at least $50 million.”
The communication and compliance plan has no current effect on the listing of the Company's shares on the exchange. If the plan is not acceptable or the Company does not make sufficient progress under the plan or reestablish compliance by June 11, 2018, then staff of the exchange may initiate proceedings for delisting from the NYSE MKT. The Company may then appeal a staff determination to initiate such proceedings in accordance with the exchange's Company Guide.
About CEL-SCI Corporation
CEL-SCI's work is focused on finding the best way to activate the immune system to fight cancer and infectious diseases. Its lead investigational immunotherapy, Multikine* (Leukocyte Interleukin, Injection), is currently being studied in a pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial as a potential neoadjuvant treatment for patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Subject to the partial clinical hold, the study was designed with the objective that, if the study endpoint, which is an improvement in overall survival of the subjects treated with the Multikine treatment regimen plus the current standard of care (SOC) as compared to subjects treated with the current SOC only, is satisfied, the study results will be used to support applications that the Company plans to submit to regulatory agencies in order to seek commercial marketing approvals for Multikine in major markets around the world. Additional clinical indications for Multikine that are being investigated include the treatment of cervical dysplasia in HIV/HPV co-infected women, and the treatment of peri-anal warts in HIV/HPV co-infected men and women. A Phase 1 trial of the former indication (treatment of cervical dysplasia in HIV/HPV co-infected women) has been completed at the University of Maryland. The latter indication (treatment of peri-anal warts in HIV/HPV co-infected men and women) is being studied in a Phase 1 trial at the University of California, San Francisco. CEL-SCI has patents on Multikine from the US, Europe, China, and Japan.
CEL-SCI is also developing its pre-clinical L.E.A.P.S. (Ligand Epitope Antigen Presentation System) technology for the potential treatment of pandemic influenza in hospitalized patients and as a potential vaccine for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
The Company has operations in Vienna, Virginia, and in/near Baltimore, Maryland.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. When used in this press release, the words "intends," "believes," "anticipated," "plans" and "expects," and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, an inability to duplicate the clinical results demonstrated in clinical studies, timely development of any potential products that can be shown to be safe and effective, receiving necessary regulatory approvals, difficulties in manufacturing any of the Company's potential products, inability to raise the necessary capital and the risk factors set forth from time to time in CEL-SCI’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to its report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2015. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of any revision to these forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
* Multikine (Leukocyte Interleukin, Injection) is the trademark that CEL-SCI has registered for this investigational therapy, and this proprietary name is subject to FDA review in connection with the Company's future anticipated regulatory submission for approval. Multikine has not been licensed or approved for sale, barter or exchange by the FDA or any other regulatory agency. Similarly, its safety or efficacy has not been established for any use. Moreover, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from the early-phase, clinical-trials data involving the investigational therapy Multikine. Further research is required, and early-phase clinical trial results must be confirmed in the Phase 3 clinical trial of this investigational therapy that is in progress and that is currently subject to a clinical hold on enrollment of additional new patients.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005777/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}