TORONTO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Postmedia Network Inc. (“Postmedia”) is pleased to announce that it is the winner of the 2016 North America Google Channel Award in the Strategic Account Growth Champion category. Postmedia’s number of total client accounts grew 454% year-over-year (YoY) from 2015-2016.
The Google Channel Award in the Strategic Account Growth Champion category is given to one Google partner in North America for their growth in AdWords revenue. Award winners were announced during the Premier Partner Summit in San Francisco last month.
“We are honoured to receive this prestigious award from Google,” said Paula Festas, Postmedia’s Chief Revenue Officer. “Postmedia is committed to offering full service advertising solutions and driving value through its customized advertising solutions and multi-platform campaigns for small and medium-sized businesses and our account growth numbers are a true testament to our exceptional customer service and performance.”
As a Google Premier Partner, Postmedia offers small and medium-sized businesses full service Digital Marketing Services for their integrated advertising needs from Search Engine Optimization to Search Engine Marketing and responsive, mobile and e-commerce website design. Postmedia was recently designated by Google to specialize in all five Search categories – adding Video and Shopping to its specialization.
To find out more about how Postmedia can help businesses with Search Engine Marketing advertising solutions, visit http://www.postmediaadvertising.com/dms/.
About PostmediaPostmedia Network Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Postmedia Network Canada Corp. (TSX:PNC.A, PNC.B), is a Canadian newsmedia company representing more than 200 brands across multiple print, online, and mobile platforms. Award-winning journalists and innovative product development teams bring engaging content to millions of people every week whenever and wherever they want it. This exceptional content, reach and scope offers advertisers and marketers compelling solutions to effectively reach target audiences. For more information, visit www.postmedia.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005949/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}