SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Silver Spring Networks, Inc. (SSNI), a leading networking platform and solutions provider for the Internet of Important ThingsTM, today announced its participation in the UBS Access conference call on Smart Grid Prospects on December 8th at 2:00 p.m. ET. Interested parties may access the conference call live via a dial-in number:
Dial-in NumbersToll Free: 888-227-5895International: +1-303-223-2696Passcode: 21836895
A dial-in replay of the conference call will be available until December 15, 2016 and can be accessed at 800-633-8284 (Toll Free) or +1 402-977-9140 (Toll) passcode 21836895.
During the course of this event, Silver Spring may disclose material developments affecting its business and/or financial performance.
The presentation time is subject to change. Please contact the financial institution hosting the conferences for additional details.
About Silver Spring Networks
Silver Spring Networks enables the Internet of Important Things™ by reliably and securely connecting things that matter. Cities, utilities, and companies on five continents use the company’s cost-effective, high-performance IoT network and data platform to operate more efficiently, get greener, and enable innovative services that can improve the lives of millions of people. With more than 24.9 million devices delivered, Silver Spring provides a proven standards-based platform safeguarded with military grade security. Silver Spring Networks’ customers include Baltimore Gas & Electric, CitiPower & Powercor, ComEd, Consolidated Edison, CPS Energy, Florida Power & Light, Pacific Gas & Electric, Pepco Holdings, and Singapore Power. Silver Spring has also deployed networks in Smart Cities including Copenhagen, Glasgow, Paris, Providence, and Stockholm. To learn more, visit www.ssni.com.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements
During the course of this presentation, Silver Spring Networks may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the filings Silver Spring makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual events or actual results to differ materially from those discussed during the presentation. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the presentation. Silver Spring assumes no obligation to, and does not necessarily intend to, update these forward-looking statements.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006476/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}