DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "North America Content Delivery Network Market (2016-2022)" report to their offering.
The Internet and its increasing use over the years has become the prime factor driving the market for CDN networks worldwide. Additionally, the ever growing mobile technology and the use social media have also actively contributed to the market growth. With improved accessibility, storage, and scalability, the market has tremendous opportunities for growth during the forecast period. North America would be the leading region globally in terms of revenue contribution, and would be the dominant region for the CDN market due to the presence of a major CDN vendors and widespread acceptance of technology solutions.
Content delivery network system can be termed as a distribution network with large number of servers interconnected and deployed in different data centers. The CDN networks offer real-time content to the users with superior performance and improved quality of service, serving large base on internet users on a daily basis. The content is duplicated and stored in multiple cache servers which can be readily accessed by the users, with a direct impact on the internet services.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Market Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Overview
4. North America Content Delivery Network Market by Type
5. North America Content Delivery Network Market by Solution Type
6. North America Content Delivery Network Market by Adjacent Services
7. North America Content Delivery Network Market by Service Provider Type
8. North America Content Delivery Network Market by Organization Size
9. North America Content Delivery Network Market by Vertical
10. North America Content Delivery Network Market by Country
11. Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/bt5nn4/north_america

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005604/en/