MEMPHIS, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
IKEA, the world’s leading home furnishings retailer, today announced that when its Memphis store opens on December 14, it will recognize loyal, enthusiastic customers by giving away thousands of dollars in gift cards and merchandise – including an iconic EKTORP sofa for each of the first 43 adults in line, and a POANG armchair for the next 100. Other highlights include a free mattress for the first 43 adults on Thursday, December 15 and free monthly meatball meals for a year to the first 43 on Friday, December 16. Customers may begin lining up at 9 a.m. CST on Monday, December 12 – 48 hours before the store’s opening at 9 a.m. CST on Wednesday, December 14. Memphis City Council Chairman Kemp Conrad, Deputy Chief of Mission for the Swedish Embassy Göran Lithell, IKEA U.S. president Lars Petersson and store manager Trisha Bevering will officially open the store.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006333/en/ 
IKEA Memphis is the Swedish company’s first store and restaurant destination in Tennessee, 43rd in the United States, and 392nd worldwide. The 271,000 square-foot future IKEA Memphis store, with 800 parking spaces, was built on 35 acres in the Wolfchase corridor along the southwestern side of Interstate-40 near the Germantown Parkway exit. The store reflects the unique architectural design for which IKEA is known worldwide, and includes Tennessee’s largest rooftop solar array – consistent with the solar presence at 90% of U.S. IKEA locations – as well as three electric vehicle charging stations.
The December 14 ceremony also will include Shelby County Commissioner Willie Brooks raising the U.S. flag, the store’s Swedish coworker Johan Carlsson raising the Swedish flag and Memphis City Councilman Bill Morrison raising the state flag of Tennessee. Individual store coworkers will sing the respective American and Swedish national anthems, and “America the Beautiful” prior to the opening remarks. Entertainment for customers waiting in line will begin at 6 a.m. CST on opening day. “Just as the IKEA store concept will introduce a new way of shopping for the home, we want customers waiting in line to visit our store to enjoy the unique experience too,” said Trisha Bevering, IKEA Memphis store manager. Store visitors will have opportunities to enjoy benefits from the grand opening of IKEA Memphis, including:
Wednesday, December 14, 2016
Thursday, December 15, 2016
Friday, December 16, 2016
Wednesday, December 14 - Sunday, December 18, 2016
ADDITIONAL OFFERS AT IKEA MEMPHIS
IKEA Memphis is a fun day out for the family with:
No shopping on an empty stomach at IKEA Memphis because:
IKEA Memphis shopping conveniences include:
When IKEA Memphis opens, there will be 392 IKEA stores in 48 countries, including 43 in the U.S. Since its 1943 founding in Sweden, IKEA has offered home furnishings of good design and function at low prices so the majority of people can afford them. IKEA has been included in rankings of “Best Companies to Work For” and, as further investment in its coworkers, has raised its own minimum wage twice in two years. IKEA incorporates sustainability into day-to-day business and supports initiatives that benefit children and the environment. For more information see IKEA-USA.com, @IKEAUSA, @IKEAUSANews, or IKEAUSA on Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Pinterest.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006333/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006333/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}