WOOD DALE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Panasonic Healthcare will sponsor a panel on Cell Expansion Considerations – Science, Regulatory and Equipment SOP Considerations at the 2016 World Stem Cell Summit, Palm Beach, FL, December 6-9, 2016. The one-hour discussion is scheduled for Thursday, December 8 at 1:30 p.m., Ballroom C, Palm Beach Convention Center.
Moderated by Panasonic Healthcare Corporation of North America Senior Vice President Steven Lynum, the panel will feature William Miller, Ph.D.; Ram Bedi, Ph.D; and Carl Radosevich, M.S. covering science, regulatory and equipment standards associated with stem cell growth and best practices.
Dr. Miller will focus on the influence of the cell culture environment on hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell expansion and megakaryocytic differentiation. Dr. Bedi will discuss regulatory implications and controls needed for commercialization. Mr. Radosevich will review proper equipment for physiological oxygen experiments and decontamination protocols for commercialization.
About Panasonic Healthcare Co., Ltd.
Incorporated in 1969, Panasonic Healthcare is a global company that develops, manufactures, sells and services medical equipment and solutions. Through its three core businesses for InVitro Diagnostics devices, Medical IT, and Laboratory and Medical Support devices, the company contributes to the wellbeing of society by creating new value propositions for all people who wish for better health. For further information on Panasonic Healthcare, please visit http://www.panasonic-healthcare.com/global/.
About Panasonic Healthcare Corporation of North America
Panasonic Healthcare Corporation of North America is a subsidiary of Panasonic Healthcare Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, and offers laboratory equipment and services to biopharmaceutical, life sciences, academic, healthcare and government markets. For information call Panasonic Healthcare Corporation of North America at 800-858-8442 or visit http://www.panasonic-healthcare.com/us/biomedical/

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006348/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}