NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) today released a new report which revealed that consumers have an advantage when it comes to finding better deals in brick and mortar stores, as compared to online. Specific categories, including beauty products, women’s apparel, women’s accessories and women’s shoes were significantly less expensive in-store, for the same products, with an average cost savings of seven percent across those categories.
Women’s Apparel Pricing Favors In-Store
Women’s clothing purchased in stores performs particularly well in comparison with the same items sold online. Overall, consumers would have saved up to nine percent by shopping in stores for the women’s clothing included in our study.
Beauty Brings Big Savings to Brick-and-Mortar
Within the beauty category, there was an average price savings of six percent for the same items purchased in a store.
Accessories at Lower Cost Offers Variety to Consumers
Women’s accessories were five percent less expensive in-store than online.
Footwear for Women at Significantly Reduced Price
Women’s shoes, on average, were seven percent less expensive in brick-and-mortar stores.
Consumers have shown a preference to shopping in a store rather than online, as seen by ICSC’s 2016 Holiday Shopping Intentions Survey. Top reasons include being able to touch, see and try the merchandise as well as immediate gratifications of taking the product home.
“There’s no replacement for the social and emotional aspects of going shopping nor the ability consumers have to touch, see and try out merchandise when they visit a physical store,” said ICSC President and CEO Tom McGee. “The convergence of digital and physical creates the added benefit of being able to price compare, research and evaluate purchasing options so consumers make better informed decisions while shopping.”
Methodology
ICSC conducted research and reviewed several sources comparing prices of goods online and prices of goods in-store, studying 547 products across several categories at 124 stores across the country in June 2016. Tax and shipping costs were not factored into the pricing comparisons.
About ICSC
ICSC serves the global retail real estate industry. We provide our 70,000+ member network in over 100 countries with invaluable resources, connections and industry insights, and actively work together to shape public policy. For more information about ICSC visit www.icsc.org.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006107/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}