ST. PAUL, Minn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
U.S. HealthWorks, one of the largest operators of occupational health and urgent care centers in the United States, announced it has acquired Twin Cities Occupational Health and Rehabilitation in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area of Minnesota.
Twin Cities Occupational Health and Rehabilitation operates three occupational health centers in the Twin Cities area, offering services such as work injury care, physical therapy, drug and alcohol testing and pre-employment screenings.
This expansion will allow U.S. HealthWorks to better serve its patients in the large Minneapolis-St. Paul metro area. With this acquisition, U.S. HealthWorks will double its clinic count in Minnesota from three to six centers, bringing the total number of U.S. HealthWorks medical and worksite clinics nationwide to 247 in 21 states.
The acquired centers are located at:
Twin Cities Occupational Health and Rehabilitation is well-known in the local community for providing excellent occupational medicine services. The organization focuses exclusively on occupational medicine and is dedicated to helping employees recover and remain healthy so that they can work and live well.
“Twin Cities Occupational Health and Rehabilitation is well-known for providing excellent care to patients,” said Joseph Mallas, President and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. HealthWorks. “We look forward to having the team become part of the U.S. HealthWorks family, allowing us to serve more patients in the Minneapolis-St. Paul region. We are excited about this addition to our organization because employers across the U.S. continue to express their wish to have us expand our footprint and we are striving to meet their goals.”
“We are delighted to join the U.S. HealthWorks team,” said Patrick Kemper, M.D., Medical Director of Twin Cities Occupational Health and Rehabilitation. “As part of U.S. HealthWorks, our patients will have access to more services and our clients will have access to locations beyond the Minneapolis-Saint Paul area, which is a benefit to larger, multi-location employers. We are happy and proud to say that Bob, Penny and I have all joined the new company to continue to provide the quality care you have grown to expect from us.”
The terms of the transactions were not disclosed.
About U.S. HealthWorks
U.S. HealthWorks, a subsidiary of Dignity Health, is one of the country’s largest operators of occupational healthcare centers with 247 medical and onsite clinics in 21 states, employing more than 4,000 people, including approximately 800 medical providers. Our centers collectively serve more than 13,000 patients each day, providing quality medical care to help employees return to work and allow employers to effectively manage claims and reduce lost work time. U.S. HealthWorks also offers special early return-to-work, injury prevention, and ergonomics programs. For more information, please visit www.ushealthworks.com or connect with us on Facebook and Twitter.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005939/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}