NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the 'BBB' rating of Harris County - Houston Sports Authority, TX's (the Authority) approximately $69.2 million ($62.9 million outstanding) taxable revenue refunding bonds for the NRG Stadium Project (NRG Stadium).
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
RATING RATIONALE
The rating reflects NRG Stadium's two solid core anchor tenants, the Houston Texans (Texans) National Football League (NFL) franchise (senior notes rated 'A+'/Stable Outlook) and the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo (HLSR or the Rodeo), both of which exhibit strong financial positions and low leverage. The rating is further supported by the diverse, though potentially volatile, pledge of revenues generated by the stadium, which includes tenant lease payments and various admission surtaxes and rebates. The stadium's metrics are also robust, with average debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 2.43x and average leverage of 3.18x in Fitch's rating case scenario.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
League Revenue Risk - Stronger:
National Football League Strength: The NFL's strong underlying league economics are supported by the NFL's structure, which promotes financial stability and competitive balance through a high percentage of revenue sharing and supplemental revenue sharing. The NFL's strength is further evidenced by the popularity of the sport, which maintains a robust and stable domestic fan attendance and viewership base. The current collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between the NFL and NFL players union that extends through 2020 provides for a lengthy period of labor relations stability. The "hard salary" cap in the CBA also injects more cost certainty to teams.
Revenue Risk - Franchise - Midrange:
Solid Anchor Tenants: Since the team began operating in Houston in 2002, the Texans have maintained a stable fan and corporate base, supported by the strength of the NFL's economic model and the sizeable Harris County and greater Houston, TX service area. HLSR's long history (dating back to 1932) and stable-to-growing attendance and educational grant funding even during the downturn further stabilize projected stadium revenues. As with any facility of this type, the nature of the sports and entertainment sectors introduce vulnerability to economic downturns and shifting discretionary consumption trends.
Facility Infrastructure Development & Renewal - Midrange:
Flexibility to Fund Improvements: The stadium is a moderately-used facility which retains high flexibility to fund rehabilitation and capital improvements to meet fan and corporate demands. Both tenants collaborate with each other and the landlord, Harris County Sports and Convention Corporation (HCSCC), on capital investment and are required to set aside $2.5 million annually into capital and maintenance accounts which ensures minimum reinvestment. As both tenants and HCSCC require different capital needs at different points in the year, cohesion could be a risk moving forward, though historical reinvestment has been significant.
Debt Structure - Stronger:
Stronger Financial Covenants: The debt is senior, fixed-rate and fully amortizing to maturity in 2031. Structural features including a 2.0x additional bonds test and 1.5x debt service coverage ratio covenant are strong and provide downside protection. Additional lease payments from the two tenants and a wide array of tax revenues from stadium events further support payment of debt service.
Healthy Financial Metrics: Historical coverage of the lease payments from both tenants remains exceedingly strong. Both entities exhibit very low leverage and high liquidity. Cash flows supporting the bonds demonstrate low leverage and strong coverage even under scenarios assuming low or no growth in tax revenues.
Peers: NRG Stadium's peer group includes Hard Rock Stadium (South Florida Stadium, LLC, bonds rated 'BBB'/Stable Outlook) in Miami, FL, home to the NFL's Miami Dolphins and University of Miami's football team, which also benefits from having two core anchor tenants. Compared to the Hard Rock Stadium, the NRG facility is newer and has lower leverage, though Hard Rock Stadium is currently undergoing a large renovation and holds a longer successful operating history.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Negative: Material and sustained deterioration in the financial condition of the Texans or HLSR could lower the tenants' ability to make the lease payments and lead to negative rating action.
Negative: Fluctuations in tax revenues driven by attendance declines or depressed economic conditions could also lead to negative rating action if debt service coverage remains only marginally above 2.0x for a sustained period.
Positive: Given susceptibility to gameday-type and Rodeo revenues, positive rating action is unlikely in the near term until leverage migrates closer to 2.0x.
CREDIT UPDATE
NRG Stadium in Harris County, TX was completed in 2002, and is home to the Houston Texans NFL Club and the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo. The stadium also hosts numerous other international, national, regional and local sporting and entertainment events throughout the year. The 1.9 million square foot multi-purpose facility has a retractable roof and can accommodate natural grass or turf, and includes seating capacity for 71,500. The stadium is owned by Harris County, Texas (the County) and leased to the HCSCC, which is landlord to the Texans and HLSR and provides for professional management of NRG Stadium and the various facilities constituting NRG Park. NRG Stadium was designed, developed and constructed and is operated by HCSCC, all in consultation with the Sports Authority and the County.
The Series 2014 NRG Stadium Project Bonds were issued to refund certain obligations of the Sports Authority relating to the construction, equipping, development and operation of NRG Stadium and related parking and infrastructure. The Bonds are secured by annual lease payments from the Houston NFL Holdings, L.P. d/b/a the Houston Texans and the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, Inc., by certain admission and parking taxes and by certain sales tax rebates relating to events held at NRG Stadium.
PERFORMANCE UPDATE
Annual attendance for NRG Stadium events has stabilized in recent years and is on par with previous years. The Texans' paid attendance as a percentage of total capacity for fiscal year (FY) 2016 remains upwards of 98%, with about 99% of all suites, club seats, and season tickets occupied. Similar to prior years, Texans suite leases, club seat licenses, and season tickets had a 98% renewal rate for 2016, reflecting the team's popularity in the area. The Texans' win percentage for the most recently completed season also improved to 0.667 compared to the prior year's performance of 0.563, leading to added fan support. Rodeo attendance has generally levelled off over the last few years, falling slightly by 0.9% to 2.5 million in FY2016. Rodeo attendance has grown at a five-year compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 1.7%, and at a 3.85% CAGR since the recession in 2008, showing resilience despite periods of stress.
Texans revenues have grown steadily year-over-year since 2009, supported by both the league and franchise's strength and popularity. Revenue growth in FY2016 was mainly driven by national media broadcasting revenues, as well as income from NFL partners. Ticket sales- the team's second largest source of revenue- grew in 2016, correlating to the Texans' improved on-field performance. Overall expenses fell slightly due to reduced operations and league costs. Operating margins grew to its highest in FY2016 compared to the last few years. Rodeo revenues were flat in FY2016, only growing 0.02% to $133.4 million as the Rodeo's two biggest revenue sources - program revenues and donations- remained largely unchanged. Opex was up 3% in FY2016 due to an increase in livestock/rodeo operations, youth & educational program costs, and growth in general & admin expenses.
The stadium itself, which collects sales tax rebates and surcharges on admissions and parking on all Texans, Rodeo, and HCSCC events, experienced a 3.3% increase in rebates and surcharges for FY2015 (fiscal year end Dec. 31), with total collections of $9.2 million (compared to a nine-year historical average of $9.0 million). Combined with pledged tenant lease payments from the Texans and Rodeo, total revenue grew 2% to $14.7 million in 2015. The growth was primarily related to increased rebate/surcharge collections on Rodeo and County events that year. Considering combined revenues (surtax, rebates, and lease payments) 2015 DSCR improved to 2.46x (compared to 2.41x in 2014). Metrics are historically resilient, averaging 2.44x since 2008. Net debt-to-cash flow available for debt service (CFADS) has steadily migrated lower over the years, with 2015 leverage falling to 4.01x (compared to 4.38x in 2014).
FITCH CASES
Similar to previous reviews, Fitch's utilized available financials, budgets and historical performance and applied a "zero-growth" assumption to future Stadium revenues and expenses to form its base case, which spans five years from 2016-2020. Under this assumption, performance is still robust, with future rebate and surcharge collections remaining flat at FY2015 levels, resulting in an average DSCR (including surtax, rebates, and lease payment revenues) of 2.46x- unchanged from FY2015. As debt service is paid, future leverage steps down to 2.09x by 2020.
Under the rating case scenario, Fitch again assumed zero revenue and expense growth, but also held future rebates and surcharges at historical average levels, which were less robust compared to recent performance. The Stadium still shows resilience under these assumptions, with average DSCR just slightly lower at 2.43x, and leverage declining to 2.88x by 2020.
Fitch also ran an additional stress scenario, in which future rebate/surcharge revenues are held flat at historic minimums. As a result, DSCR falls to 1.89x with leverage lingering above 4x, which is notably weaker, but still falls within indicative rating levels for an investment-grade sports facility. This scenario further highlights the stadium's resilience during down cycles.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com
Applicable Criteria
Rating Criteria for Infrastructure and Project Finance (pub. 08 Jul 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882594
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015821
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015821
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161202005753/en/