DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Military Aircraft Hangars Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global military aircraft hangars market to grow at a CAGR of 2.66% during the period 2016-2020.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global military aircraft hangars market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated through the construction and installation of military aircraft hangars. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
A military aircraft hangar is a closed building structure that shelters aircraft, helicopters, and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Traditional aircraft hangars are constructed with metals or concrete. Therefore, these are fixed and unmovable in nature. However, contemporary military agencies are also increasingly using composites and fibers to erect an aircraft hangar that is portable installation and can be shifted based on the requirements of warfare.
According to the report, one of the primary drivers in the market is increasing emphasis on establishing facilities for sophisticated combat aircraft. Over the years, the use and acceptance of military aircraft have been increasing across the globe. The growth of long-range warfare remains the prime reason for augmenting the fleet size of military aircraft among the combat forces of various countries.
After a decade-long involvement in Afghanistan and Iraq, the air wing of multiple countries faced serious need to upgrade the technological capabilities of their air platforms, which fueled the need to develop sophisticated combat aircraft that can amplify the magnitude of air strikes. Led by the US, many other allied countries are now involved in a campaign intended to neutralize the militancy activities, which are based on the fundamental religious belief in the Middle East.
The ongoing actions in Syria and Iraq have been expanded to include massive air strikes by the US and its allied nations, including Australia, Denmark, Canada, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the UK.
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by product
Part 07: Geographical segmentation
Part 08: Market drivers
Part 09: Impact of drivers
Part 10: Market challenges
Part 11: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 12: Market trends
Part 13: Vendor landscape
Part 14: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/vjqzgm/global_military

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005677/en/