CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
BDO Consulting, a division of BDO USA, LLP, one of the nation’s leading accounting and consulting firms, today announced an expansion of its forensic technology services practice through the addition of the e-Discovery practice of Key Discovery, a Boston-based litigation support provider. The practice provides electronic data collection and processing, hosted review, production, project management and consulting to leading law firms and corporate legal departments. Key Discovery will continue in its primary business of paper discovery and corporate solutions, while maintaining an ongoing strategic alliance with BDO. This transaction is effective immediately.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005929/en/ 
“We are extremely pleased to build on our presence in the Boston market by adding these e-discovery resources to our national forensic technology services practice. Key has an impressive client base – including many members of the American Lawyer 200 and U.S. News Best Law Firms in Boston lists – who have growing demands for e-discovery. We will expand this practice and, more importantly, provide these clients with additional capabilities and resources – in areas such as digital forensics, cyber investigations, data analytics and expert testimony,” said Carl Pergola, Partner and Executive Director of BDO Consulting. “Since we have already been collaborating on client work and business development with Key’s e-discovery team, we anticipate a seamless integration of the practice and its clients.”
“Key Discovery has built a strong brand in the Boston marketplace as a premier provider of litigation support services. Our e-discovery practice has been an important component of that success, but for it to reach the next level of growth in this expanding space it requires the national brand name and resources that BDO can provide,” said Tom Washburn, CEO of Key Discovery. “BDO, which will continue to be a strategic ally of Key Discovery, combines an understanding of the local market with the national and global resources to match the needs of leading law firms and multinational corporations.”
This transaction represents BDO’s second this year in the important Boston market. Earlier in 2016, the firm expanded its Boston practice through the addition of 105 staff, including 15 partners, from Feeley & Driscoll, P.C. BDO now has close to 300 staff in the market.
Key’s e-Discovery professionals will relocate to BDO’s Boston offices at:
BDO USATwo International PlaceBoston, MA 02110Phone: 617-422-0700
About BDO Consulting
BDO Consulting, a division of BDO USA, LLP, provides clients with Financial Advisory, Business Advisory and Technology Services in the U.S. and around the world, leveraging BDO’s global network of more than 60,000 professionals. Having a depth of industry expertise, we provide rapid, strategic guidance in the most challenging of environments to achieve exceptional client service. For more information, please visit www.bdo.com.
About BDO USA
BDO is the brand name for BDO USA, LLP, a U.S. professional services firm providing assurance, tax, financial advisory and consulting services to a wide range of publicly traded and privately held companies. For more than 100 years, BDO has provided quality service through the active involvement of experienced and committed professionals. The firm serves clients through more than 60 offices and more than 400 independent alliance firm locations nationwide. As an independent Member Firm of BDO International Limited, BDO serves multi-national clients through a global network of more than 1,300 offices in over 150 countries.
BDO USA, LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership, is the U.S. member of BDO International Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, and forms part of the international BDO network of independent member firms. BDO is the brand name for the BDO network and for each of the BDO Member Firms. For more information, please visit: www.bdo.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005929/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005929/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}