MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
NGC Software, a leading provider of fashion PLM, supply chain management and apparel ERP solutions, today announced the availability of its Advanced Quality Module. The new tablet-based software and application allows quality control managers to easily conduct quality audits at the manufacturing facility. As a result, retailers and brands can identify problems sooner, fix them at the factory before products ship, and reduce the risk of cancellations or chargebacks by improving product quality.
Replacing time-consuming, manual quality control processes, the NGC Advanced Quality Module provides a comprehensive solution for quality management that can easily integrate with existing PLM and apparel supply chain management solutions from NGC and other vendors. It features multilingual online and offline functionality with global collaboration. NGC’s Advanced Quality Module can be used with the NGC Interactive Quality Tablet (IQT), a fast, easy-to-use, mobile solution for quality auditing.
The easy-to-use solution allows auditors to conduct multiple audit types per purchase order, take photos of defects, and conduct master inspections. NGC’s Advanced Quality Module can provide comprehensive analytics by factory, vendor, country, and style, assuring the most complete set of quality data, which can be analyzed in order to assist with sourcing decisions and identify where factories can make improvements. Corrective action plans bring the quality assurance process full circle.
“NGC’s Advanced Quality Module is revolutionizing the way manufacturers conduct their quality control processes and is far more objective and consistent than the manual processes many manufacturers use,” said Mark Burstein, president of sales, marketing and R&D, NGC Software. “Our Advanced Quality Module is already being deployed by leading fashion brands and retailers, helping them make better sourcing decisions and quickly improve product quality.”
NGC’s Advanced Quality Module is now available. Click here for more information.
About NGCNGC Software is a leading provider of product lifecycle management (PLM), supply chain management (SCM), apparel ERP and shop floor control software and services for brands, retailers and consumer products companies. NGC solutions help optimize lead times, increase profitability, reduce costs, improve product quality, and manage compliance and testing. NGC was recognized as a leader in 34 categories in the 2015 RIS News Software Leaderboard and has received top rankings by leading industry analysts and other media.
NGC customers include Billabong, Canada Goose, Carter’s, Destination XL, Foot Locker, Nicole Miller, Rocky Brands, Spanx, Sport Obermeyer, VF Corporation, Williamson-Dickie and many others. NGC has offices in Miami, New York, Los Angeles, Canada, China, India, Mexico, and El Salvador and is a wholly owned subsidiary of American Software Inc. (AMSWA), named one of the 100 Most Trustworthy Companies in America by Forbes. For more information, visit www.ngcsoftware.com.
Forward-Looking Statements: This press release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by statements made herein. These factors include, but are not limited to, continuing U.S. and global economic uncertainty, the timing and degree of business recovery, unpredictability and the irregular pattern of future revenues, dependence on particular market segments or customers, competitive pressures, delays, product liability and warranty claims and other risks associated with new product development, undetected software errors, market acceptance of the Company’s products, technological complexity, the challenges and risks associated with integration of acquired product lines, companies and services, as well as a number of other risk factors that could affect the Company’s future performance. For further information about risks the Company and American Software could experience as well as other information, please refer to American Software, Inc.’s current Form 10-K and other reports and documents subsequently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For more information about risks the Company could face as well as other information, contact Vincent C. Klinges, Chief Financial Officer, American Software, Inc., 470 East Paces Ferry Rd., Atlanta, GA 30305, (404) 261-9777. FAX: (404) 264-5206 INTERNET: www.amsoftware.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005251/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}