SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
(AMZN) – Amazon today announced its best-selling books of 2016, best-selling Kids & Teens books of 2016, as well as the Most Gifted and Most Wished For books of the year—just in time for holiday gifting. The best-selling book of the year is Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Parts 1 & 2, Special Rehearsal Edition Script by J.K. Rowling, Jack Thorne and John Tiffany followed by When Breath Becomes Air by Paul Kalanithi. Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is also the best-selling book in the Kids & Teens category and Diary of a Wimpy Kid # 11: Double Down by Jeff Kinney is number two. Rowling’s bestseller also tops the lists for both the Most Gifted and Most Wished For book of the year, confirming that Harry Potter continues to be a favorite for readers across genres. The best-selling book lists are first editions published in 2016 comprising both print and Kindle purchases. To see the full top 100 list of Amazon’s best-selling print and Kindle books of 2016, visit www.amazon.com/bestsellingbooks2016.
“This year’s best-selling list showcases the variety of Amazon readers’ tastes, from literary fiction to thrillers to memoirs,” said Chris Schluep, Amazon Senior Book Editor. “The power of Potter is still strong, and readers of all ages can’t get enough of Hogwarts. Harry Potter and the Cursed Child was the most anticipated book of the year, breaking pre-order records months before its release.”
The top 20 best-selling books of 2016 overall are:
More about Amazon’s best-selling books of 2016:
The top 20 best-selling Kids & Teens books of 2016 overall are:
Fun Facts about Amazon’s best-selling Kids & Teen Books of 2016:
To learn more about the best-selling books of the year, visit www.amazon.com/bestsellingbooks2016.
About Amazon
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005452/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}