MONTERREY, Mexico--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed FEMSA S.A.B. de C.V.'s (FEMSA) Long-Term Foreign and Local Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'A'. In addition, Fitch has affirmed FEMSA's National scale long-term rating at 'AAA(mex)' and National scale short-term rating at 'F1+(mex)'. The Rating Outlook is Stable. A full list of rating actions follows at the end of this press release.
FEMSA's ratings reflect its solid business portfolio of leading companies in the beverage and retail industries and the stable financial profile at the FEMSA holding company with stable leverage and ample liquidity. The ratings also incorporate the sound cash flow generation capacity of its subsidiary, FEMSA Comercio, S.A. de C.V. (FEMSA Comercio), and the reliable flow of dividends received from its subsidiary Coca-Cola FEMSA, S.A.B. de C.V. (KOF, 'A-'/Outlook Stable) and its 20% equity interest in Heineken.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Solid Business Portfolio
The ratings reflect the solid business portfolio of FEMSA in the beverage and retail sectors. In the non-alcoholic beverage sector, FEMSA has a 47.9% economic ownership and 63% voting shares of KOF, the largest franchised independent bottler of Coca-Cola products in the world in terms of sales volume. In addition, the company owns a 20% equity interest in Heineken, one of the largest beer producers in the world. In the retail sector, FEMSA's wholly owned subsidiary FEMSA Comercio is the largest chain of convenience stores in Latin America, under the brand name Oxxo.
Strong Retail Business
FEMSA Comercio continues to strengthen its business position in the retail sector through organic growth and acquisitions. Oxxo continues to open on average more than 1,200 stores per year, reaching 14,695 stores as of September 2016, and maintaining its position as the third largest retailer in Mexico in terms of sales. Its health (drugstores) and fuel (gas stations) divisions have also been increasing their contribution to FEMSA Comercio's figures and represent approximately 20% and 13%, respectively, of its total revenues. The company operates more than 1,000 pharmacies in Mexico and around 680 in Chile and 180 in Colombia, as well as 348 gas stations in its fuel business. Fitch anticipates FEMSA will continue expanding in these divisions through organic growth and acquisitions.
Good Operating Performance
Fitch expects FEMSA Comercio, the main source of cash flow generation for FEMSA at the holding company, to maintain a robust operating performance. Fitch projects FEMSA Comercio's consolidated revenues will increase around 39% in 2016 and 9% in 2017. The effect of acquisitions, opening new stores across its retail, health and fuel divisions, and mid-single-digit growth in same store sales (SSS) in Oxxo should support the expected increase. Fitch also expects a slight reduction in FEMSA Comercio's profitability because the drugstores and gas stations have lower margins than Oxxo. Fitch projects an EBITDA margin in FEMSA Comercio of around 8% to 9% in 2016-2017. For the first nine months of 2016, FEMSA Comercio's revenues increased 45% to MXN152.3 billion, while EBITDA margin decreased to 8% from 9% when compared to the same period of 2015.
Stable Leverage
Fitch believes that FEMSA's leverage, excluding KOF, will remain relatively stable. For 2016 Fitch projects FEMSA's total debt-to-EBITDA excluding KOF and total net debt-to-EBITDA to be around 2.4x and 0.7x, respectively, and then gradually decrease to 2x and 0.5x by year-end 2017. For the LTM as of Sept. 30, 2016, excluding KOF, FEMSA's total debt-to-EBITDA and total net debt-to-EBITDA as calculated by Fitch were 2.5x and 0.4x, respectively. Adjusting these ratios with the amount of rents coming mainly from FEMSA Comercio, Fitch calculated a total adjusted debt-to-EBITDA plus rents (EBITDAR) of 3.4x and total adjusted net debt-to-EBITDAR of 1.8x.
Manageable Debt Profile and FX Risk
As of Sept. 30, 2016, FEMSA's total debt, excluding KOF, estimated by Fitch was MXN44 billion, of which MXN2.5 billion corresponded to local issuances due in 2017, MXN12.7 billion of senior notes due in 2023 and 2043 (USD300 million and USD700 million, respectively), MXN21.6 billion (EUR1 billion) of senior notes due in 2023, and MXN6.7 billion of bank debt maturing between 2016 and 2022 related mainly to FEMSA Comercio. Fitch believes FEMSA's exposure to foreign currency debt is manageable, as the principal and interest payments of its USD senior notes were hedged to Mexican pesos, while the senior notes denominated in Euros have a natural hedge with the dividends from Heineken.
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
--Revenue growth, excluding KOF, of 38% in 2016 and 10% in 2017;
--EBITDA margin, excluding KOF, at around 8% to 9% in 2016-2017;
--Total debt-to-EBITDA and net debt-to-EBITDA, excluding KOF, below 2x and 0.5x, respectively, in the next 18 to 24 months.
--Total adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR and adjusted net debt-to-EBITDAR, excluding KOF, below 3x and 2x, respectively, in the next 18 to 24 months.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Fitch does not foresee any positive rating action over the medium term.
Negative ratings actions could be triggered by the combination of one or more of the following:
--Deterioration of operating performance and profitability at FEMSA Comercio;
--Significant decline in the flow of dividends received from KOF and Heineken;
--Aggressive debt-financed acquisitions that change the capital structure of the company in the long term;
--Multiple downgrades in the sovereign ratings of Mexico could pressure the ratings.
LIQUIDITY
FEMSA's liquidity position, excluding KOF, is strong, with cash and marketable securities of MXN37.7 billion and short-term debt of MXN2.4 billion as of Sept. 30, 2016. Also, its liquidity position is supported by stable dividends received from KOF and Heineken of around MXN3.3 billion each in 2016. Fitch considers that the annual free cash flow (FCF) capacity of FEMSA Comercio estimated by Fitch at around MXN6 billion and the approximately EUR8 billion of market value in its 20% stake in Heineken as of December 2016 provide additional flexibility for its liquidity needs and to service its debt and amortization profile.
FULL LIST OF RATING ACTIONS
Fitch has affirmed the following ratings:
--Long-Term Foreign Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'A';
--Long-Term Local Currency IDR at 'A';
--National scale long-term rating at 'AAA(mex)';
--National scale short-term rating at 'F1+(mex)';
-- EUR1 billion senior notes due 2023 at 'A';
-- USD300 million senior notes due 2023 at 'A';
-- USD700 million senior notes due 2043 at 'A';
--Local Certificados Bursatiles issuances FEMSA 07U due in 2017 at 'AAA(mex)'.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com
Applicable Criteria
Criteria for Rating Non-Financial Corporates (pub. 27 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/885629
Parent and Subsidiary Rating Linkage (pub. 31 Aug 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886557
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016265
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016265
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005752/en/