DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Hilltop Securities Inc. (HTS) announced today that Managing Director Mark J. Grant has been named Chief Strategist for HilltopSecurities, effective November 30, 2016. In his new role, Mr. Grant will provide the firm’s business divisions with insights on economic trends, interest rates, equities, debt and market strategy.
“We are pleased to announce Mark’s new role with HilltopSecurities,” said Chief Executive Officer of HilltopSecurities Hill A. Feinberg. “For the past 15 years, Mark’s insight into both U.S. and foreign markets has served us well. Now, with the larger footprint of HilltopSecurities, Mark’s expertise and advice will bolster the firm’s efforts and exposure on a national basis.”
Mr. Grant is well known for his frequent television appearances where he discusses domestic and foreign market trends and the impact of socio-political change on market behavior. He is also the author of “Out of the Box,” a daily newsletter of market commentary with a distribution of approximately 5,000 institutions in approximately 48 countries, and the book “Out of the Box and Onto Wall Street,” a memoir and investment strategy guide. He has more than 40 years of financial services experience, serving in various senior management positions. Prior to his appointment as Chief Strategist, he served as a Managing Director in Institutional Sales at HTS and as a Managing Director in Corporate Syndicate and Structured Products with the firm’s legacy company, Southwest Securities, Inc.
About Hilltop Securities Inc.
Hilltop Securities Inc., a member of NYSE, FINRA and SIPC, delivers the forthright advice and tailored solutions necessary for municipal issuers, institutions, broker-dealers and individuals to thrive. The financial services firm and registered investment adviser is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, with offices across the United States. The firm’s other areas of focus include public finance, municipal and taxable fixed income underwriting, sales and trading; equity and portfolio trading; retail brokerage services; securities clearing; structured finance; corporate finance; and securities lending. A wholly owned subsidiary of Hilltop Holdings Inc. (HTH), HilltopSecurities’ affiliates include Hilltop Securities Independent Network Inc., PlainsCapital Bank, PrimeLending and National Lloyds Corporation. Learn more at HilltopSecurities.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005270/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}