NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
American International Group, Inc. (AIG) today announced that in accordance with the terms of the outstanding warrants (CUSIP number 026874156) (the “Warrants”) to purchase shares of AIG Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share, the Warrant exercise price will be reduced to $44.4305 per share from $44.5525 per share and the number of shares of AIG Common Stock receivable upon Warrant exercise will increase to 1.013 from 1.010. Each of these adjustments will be effective at the close of business on December 8, 2016. Any Warrant exercised on or prior to December 8, 2016 will not be entitled to these adjustments.
These adjustments resulted from the declaration by the Board of Directors of AIG on November 2, 2016 of a dividend of $0.32 per share on AIG Common Stock. The dividend is payable on December 22, 2016, to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 8, 2016.
Further information on the Warrants and the adjustments to the Warrant exercise price and number of shares of AIG Common Stock receivable upon Warrant exercise, including the U.S. Federal income tax treatment of these adjustments, will be available in the Investor Relations section of AIG’s website.
American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading global insurance organization. Founded in 1919, today AIG member companies provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement products, mortgage insurance and other financial services to customers in more than 100 countries and jurisdictions. These diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Additional information about AIG can be found at www.aig.com and www.aig.com/strategyupdate | YouTube: www.youtube.com/aig | Twitter: @AIGinsurance | LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/aig. These references with additional information about AIG have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this press release.
AIG is the marketing name for the worldwide property-casualty, life and retirement, and general insurance operations of American International Group, Inc. For additional information, please visit our website at www.aig.com. All products and services are written or provided by subsidiaries or affiliates of American International Group, Inc. Products or services may not be available in all countries, and coverage is subject to actual policy language. Non-insurance products and services may be provided by independent third parties. Certain property-casualty coverages may be provided by a surplus lines insurer. Surplus lines insurers do not generally participate in state guaranty funds, and insureds are therefore not protected by such funds.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006364/en/