SAN FRANCISCO & STAFFORD, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Alpine Investors V SBIC, LP (“Alpine”), together with several co-investors, announced today that it has invested in Light Wave Dental Management (“Light Wave”), a dental support organization providing management services for top-tier dental practices in the Eastern United States. The deal officially closed with the affiliation of six premier dental practices in Virginia.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006102/en/ 
Light Wave is creating a better alternative to traditional corporate dentistry for dentists approaching retirement and younger dentists in search of a better way to buy into a successful practice.
“We are honored to be partnering with the fantastic dentists who founded and operate the industry-leading practices comprising Light Wave Dental,” said Graham Weaver, founder and partner at Alpine Investors. “We could not be more excited about Light Wave’s new CEO, Justin Jory. Justin’s integrity, drive, passion, hard work and humility give us tremendous confidence in Light Wave’s future.”
Light Wave’s practice management services allow its dentist partners to spend more time caring for their patients and less time on the administrative, marketing and financial aspects of running a dental practice. “The dental industry is facing real pressure as dental insurers are exerting more pressure on solo practitioners and dentists struggle to find a group practice solution that makes sense. We always thought there ought to be a better alternative to traditional corporate dentistry, that is why we are so excited to be partnering with Justin and Light Wave to solve these issues together,” said Dr. Bruce Hutchison. “We are very confident in the new ownership of Light Wave and our mutual investment in the future of dentistry.”
“I’m thrilled to be joining a group of premier dentists to craft a long-term solution that actually works for both retiring doctors and younger doctors based on the principle of partnership,” said Justin Jory. “Together, with Alpine’s support, we are building a platform that will create a better dental group experience for patients, staff, and doctors alike. This is just the first step into an exciting future.”
Light Wave is looking to provide the same opportunity for other dentists in Virginia and will be hosting three dentist-only networking events in coming weeks:
If you are interested in learning more about what Light Wave Dental can do for you, come meet the team to learn more. Each event will be limited to the first 24 doctors to RSVP. To RSVP, please email info@lightwavedental.com with the event you’d like to attend (city and date), your contact information (phone and email), and the location of your dental practice.
About Alpine Investors
Alpine is a values-driven private equity firm with a mission to build enduring companies by working with, learning from and developing exceptional people. Alpine specializes in lower middle-market companies in the software, online and business services industries. For more information, visit www.alpine-investors.com.
Talk with us @alpineinvestsf, LinkedIn, Facebook.
About Light Wave Dental Management
Light Wave Dental Management is a management services partner for top-tier dental offices located in Virginia. Light Wave is dedicated to providing the benefits of a larger dental group for the doctors and the staff without the drawbacks of traditional corporate dentistry. Light Wave offers a low-touch, democratic approach to working with its dental partners that drives better results for doctors and a better experience for the staff. Light Wave seeks to partner with doctors approaching retirement and younger doctors looking for a better path to practice ownership. For more information, visit www.lightwavedental.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006102/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006102/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}