DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Frontier Pharma: Asthma Therapeutics - Cytokine and Kinase Targeted Small Molecules and mAbs Increase Pipeline Diversity and Dominate First-in-Class Innovation" drug pipelines to their offering.
Asthma is a chronic condition affecting the respiratory system, with disease occurrence linked to both genetic and environmental factors. It has significant global incidence and there is currently no cure. Pharmacotherapeutic intervention aims to provide patients with an increased level of disease control and reduce the severity of symptoms, and a number of inhalational therapeutic options are available.
Current asthma treatment options are able to provide the majority of patients with a sufficient level of disease control. Additionally, scientific advancements through the development of combination and add-on therapeutics have provided patients with treatments that allow for a greater level of disease control. However, unmet need remains, in the form of patients that do not respond well to current therapeutics or therapeutic combinations. This group of patients accounts for the vast majority of global healthcare costs associated with asthma.
Pipeline product development aims to improve upon current therapeutic options and provide options for satisfactory disease control to patients with unmet needs. This is reflected in the high number of products in development, with 287 pipeline products, accounting for just over a third of products within the broader respiratory therapy area pipeline. There are a total of 93 first-in-class pipeline products in development for asthma, representing a substantial 44% of the 212 pipeline products for which there is a disclosed molecular target.
A number of these first-in-class pipeline programs appear to have significant potential to strengthen the asthma treatment landscape - as well as representing promising commercial opportunities. A large number of first-in-class products in the current asthma pipeline have not previously been involved in licensing or co-development deals. This highlights the significant opportunities in the asthma pipeline, and the many possibilities for high-risk, high-reward investment.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Tables & Figures
2 Executive Summary
3 The Case for Innovation in the Asthma Market
4 Clinical and Commercial Landscape
5 Assessment of Pipeline Product Innovation
6 Signaling Network and Innovation Alignment
7 First-in-Class Target Evaluation
8 Deals and Strategic Consolidations
9 Appendix
For more information about this drug pipelines report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/snk4fg/frontier_pharma

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005529/en/