ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
FI Navigator and Celent released “Mobile Banking Quantified: Comprehensive Benchmarks for US Vendors & Institutions,” which provides unprecedented quantitative analysis of mobile banking trends for nearly 7,000 U.S. financial institutions and 48 retail mobile banking technology providers as of September 30, 2016.
Leveraging FI Navigator’s mobile banking data and analytics module and Celent’s leading industry research methodologies, the latest report encompasses the entire U.S. mobile banking market, providing significant insights and developments among vendors’ and financial institutions’ offerings and performance, including market share, customer adoption, utilization and satisfaction, mobile feature provision and more.
Highlights from “Mobile Banking Quantified” include:
“US Mobile banking adoption is lower than one might expect based on the headlines: only 57% of all institutions have an app. This is driven primarily by poor adoption among smaller institutions with less than $100 million in assets,” said Daniel Latimore, SVP of Celent’s Banking practice. “The vendor market can be divided into two large groups: multi-product solutions providers and pure plays. In either case, the key to mobile success is adoption by end consumers; vendors are typically paid based on some variant of installed users.”
"Arguably, nearly every financial institution’s strategic plan has prioritized their digital transformation of retail banking,” said Steve Cotton, CEO and founder of FI Navigator. “They clearly recognize its importance, but have lacked the data to assess their own performance. Now those institutions and their vendor partners have the ability to compare their performance and offering to peers.”
To learn more about the report, including how to request an excerpt showing the depth of analysis available, please visit http://celent.com/reports/mobile-banking-quantified-comprehensive-benchmarks-us-vendors-institution-0. Additional insights are also available through a direct subscription to FI Navigator’s database.
About Celent
Celent is a research and advisory firm dedicated to helping financial institutions formulate comprehensive business and technology strategies. Celent publishes reports identifying trends and best practices in financial services technology and conducts consulting engagements for financial institutions looking to use technology to enhance existing business processes or launch new business strategies. With a team of internationally based analysts, Celent is uniquely positioned to offer strategic advice and market insights on a global basis. Celent is a member of the Oliver Wyman Group, which is part of Marsh & McLennan Companies (MMC).
About FI Navigator
FI Navigator provides a web-based bank data and analytics platform for the banking vertical delivering institution-specific insights and industry-wide research to FinTech providers and financial institutions. By integrating unstructured website data and conventional financial institution data, FI Navigator expands the depth of peer analytics and the breadth of market research to create vertical analytics on more than 13,000 financial institutions and their technology providers. The platform’s initial mobile banking data and analytics module provides unprecedented vertical intelligence on the nearly 7,000 financial institutions with identified vendor providers. The online banking module covers over 10,000 financial institutions and over 60 vendor solutions. For more information, visit www.fi-navigator.com or follow the company on LinkedIn at www.linkedin.com/company/fi-navigator-corporation and Twitter @FINavigator.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005796/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}