IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Patient Safety Movement Foundation (PSMF) is very proud to announce that Parrish Medical Center in Titusville, Florida, has become the first hospital to make formal commitments that align with all 12 Actionable Patient Safety Solutions (APSS) toward eliminating preventable patient deaths by 2020 (0X2020). Earlier this year, Parrish Medical Center made nine commitments through which 85 lives will be saved. Parrish was named one of the winners of PSMF’s annual competition to win a private fishing trip with former President Jimmy Carter and First Lady Rosalynn Carter for their estimated projection of “lives saved.”
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005597/en/ 
In October, Parrish Medical Center’s Controller, Michael Sitowitz, joined President and First Lady Carter on a private fishing trip in the North Georgia Mountains. They were joined by four other individuals who have contributed significantly to the Foundation’s expansion, both domestically and internationally: Dr. Yisrael Safeek of the SafeCare Group; Dr. Robert Kamei and Dr. Michelle Thai, the Foundation’s Regional Network Co-Chairs in Asia; and Dr. Javier Davila, the Regional Network Chair in Mexico. Parrish Medical Center will announce their commitments at the 5th Annual World Patient Safety, Science & Technology Summit, February 3–4, 2017, at Laguna Cliffs Marriott Resort and Spa in Dana Point, California.
Since its inception, the Patient Safety Movement Foundation has worked with medical safety experts from around the world to develop a series of simple and easy to follow processes to some of the most common patient safety challenges that hospitals face today. These processes, called Actionable Patient Safety Solutions (APSS), can be adapted to almost any clinical setting, anywhere in the world. There are currently 12 patient safety challenges, and Parrish Medical Center has made a total of 16 commitments that align with all 12 APSS categories, resulting in 142 total lives saved so far in 2016.
“As a responsible medical provider on Florida’s east coast, Parrish Medical Center has always put patient care and safety first,” said Edwin Loftin, Vice President of Acute Care/CNO at Parrish Medical Center. “We are honored to be a part of such a vital movement. The APSS make it easy for medical professionals, in any setting, to follow step-by-step, evidence-based and cost-saving procedures that will spare thousands of families the tragic, yet preventable loss of a loved one.”
“I remember President Carter asking me why we hadn’t committed to all 12 APSS,” said Michael Sitowitz, Controller at Parrish Medical Center. “I paused and thought, 'That’s a good question.' Once we got back from our trip, we went to work on completing the remaining three commitments. It was an honor to meet the former President and First Lady and it was a once-in-a-lifetime experience and we left recharged to do even more.”
“We are impressed to see Parrish make a commitment for every one of our APSS. They are leading the way as an excellent example of an organization that is committed to putting patient safety first,” said Joe Kiani, Founder of the Patient Safety Movement Foundation. “We are proud of the 1,624 hospitals that have made a formal commitment to reach zero preventable deaths by the year 2020. I respectfully challenge every hospital to incorporate all 12 APSS in the upcoming year—it is imperative if we are to reach our goal of zero preventable deaths by 2020. Unlike over 200,000 families, that have lost loved ones due to a medical error last year, the lives saved by these commitments allow someone’s mother, father, child or loved one to be a part of their lives.”
“We are extremely grateful to former President Carter and First Lady Rosalynn for once again offering this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to celebrate the winners and lives they will save,” continued Kiani. “Through their leadership, the Carter Center has helped to improve the quality of life for people in more than 80 countries. When they started, Guinea Worm Disease afflicted an estimated 3.5 million people a year in 21 countries in Africa and Asia. Today, they have taken this number down to 22 cases. We had some deep discussions on how we can expedite our efforts to help eliminate the 3 million preventable patient deaths in the developed world and 17,000,000 preventable deaths in the developing world.”
Mr. Kiani concluded, “We hope to be announcing soon the next fishing trip with President Carter and First Lady Rosalynn; so please go save our neighbors, friends, and loved ones from preventable deaths and enter into our next Fishing Trip competition. Stay tuned...”
For a list of commitments, please visit http://patientsafetymovement.org/commitments-list/.
The 12 APSS and Parrish’s commitment(s) for each one are as follows:
Commitments that fall outside of current PSMF APSS categories include:
Parrish Medical Center
Parrish Medical Center (PMC) is a public, nonprofit, acute care hospital in Titusville, Florida, within sight of the launch towers of Kennedy Space Center. PMC has been nationally recognized for clinical care quality, patient safety, low cost, and overall patient experience. It has committed to zero preventable patient deaths caused by indwelling Catheter Associated Urinary Tract Infection (CAUTI), Surgical Site Infection for colon resection and total abdominal hysterectomy procedures, methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Clostridum difficile infection (CDI), and Sepsis, among many other potential causes.
About The Patient Safety Movement Foundation
More than 200,000 people die every year in U.S. hospitals in ways that could have been prevented. The Patient Safety Movement Foundation was established through the support of the Masimo Foundation for Ethics, Innovation, and Competition in Healthcare, to reduce that number of preventable deaths to 0 by 2020 (0X2020). Improving patient safety will require a collaborative effort from all stakeholders, including patients, healthcare providers, medical technology companies, government, employers, and private payers. The Patient Safety Movement Foundation works with all stakeholders to address the problems and solutions of patient safety. The Foundation also convenes Patient Safety, Science and Technology Summits. The first annual Summit was held in January 2013, and brought together some of our nation’s best minds for thought-provoking discussions and new ideas to challenge the status quo. By presenting specific, high-impact recipes to meet patient safety challenges, encouraging medical technology companies to share the data for whom their products are purchased, and asking hospitals to make commitments to implement Actionable Patient Safety Solutions, the Foundation is working toward zero preventable deaths by 2020. Visit www.patientsafetymovement.org.
@0X2020 #patientsafety #0X2020

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005597/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005597/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}