SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Viptela, the Software-Defined WAN (SD-WAN) company, today announced it was selected a Top 100 Global company for 2016 by Red Herring. Each year the Top 100 Global list recognizes the leading private companies from North America, Europe, and Asia whose innovations and technologies make them the most promising businesses in their respective industries.
According to one leading analyst firm, half the market revenue for SD-WAN deployments is held by just two startups. Viptela has been widely deployed by more than 25 Fortune 500 companies, while major carriers including Verizon and Singtel are using Viptela to deliver managed SD-WAN services.
“Choosing the companies with the strongest potential was by no means a small feat,” said Alex Vieux, publisher and CEO of Red Herring. “After rigorous contemplation and discussion, we narrowed our list down from hundreds of candidates from across the globe to the Top 100 Winners. We believe Viptela embodies the vision, drive and innovation that define a successful entrepreneurial venture.”
Red Herring’s Top 100 Global list has become a mark of distinction for identifying promising companies and entrepreneurs. Red Herring editors were among the first to recognize that companies such as Facebook, Twitter, Google, Yahoo, Skype, Salesforce.com, YouTube, and eBay would change the way we live and work.
“Being named a Red Herring Top Global 100 company is a special honor, given the accomplishments of past winners like Google and Salesforce.com,” said Amir Khan, CEO of Viptela. “According to industry estimates, SD-WAN revenues are expected to reach $6 billion by 2020. As the market leader, we are in position to capture a large share of these deployments.”
The Viptela Software-Defined Wide Area Network (SD-WAN) platform virtualizes WAN infrastructure to allow enterprises and service providers to roll-out of voice, video and data applications faster using any edge access link across their extended enterprise, including remote offices, branches, retail outlets, campuses, data centers and more. Viptela reduces WAN costs by 50%, while providing 10x more bandwidth and 5x higher voice and cloud performance than alternatives.
Red Herring’s editorial staff evaluated the companies on both quantitative and qualitative criteria, such as financial performance, technology innovation, management quality, strategy, and market penetration. This assessment of potential is complemented by a review of the track records and standing of startups relative to their peers, allowing Red Herring to see past the “buzz” and make the list a valuable instrument of discovery and advocacy for the most promising new business models from around the world.
About ViptelaViptela provides Software-Defined Wide Area Network (SD-WAN) technology that virtualizes WAN infrastructure. The platform allows global companies to build carrier agnostic, policy-controlled and cost-effective WANs. Viptela has been deployed at thousands of sites by more than 25 Fortune 500 enterprises; and major carriers including Verizon and Singtel are using Viptela to deliver managed SD-WAN services. The company has been named a Next Billion Dollar Startup by Forbes, 2016 Red Herring Top 100 Company and CRN Tech Innovator. Viptela is backed by Redline Capital, Northgate Capital and Sequoia Capital. For more information, visit: viptela.com or follow us on Twitter @viptela.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005290/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}