PLANO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Tyler Technologies, Inc. (TYL) is providing an update on Shelby County, Tennessee’s implementation of Tyler’s Odyssey® court case management system, and seeks to correct inaccurate news media coverage, including false claims of wrongful incarceration due to Tyler’s software.
Tyler’s project team has been and continues to be onsite since the onset of the implementation, and is actively working with county staff daily, if not hourly, on normal, post-implementation issues. Nothing has been reported to Tyler that would indicate that an individual has stayed in jail longer than they should have because of Odyssey software. Odyssey is one of six systems that went live in early November as part of the county’s court and jail systems upgrade, with a separate vendor responsible for the jail system and another responsible for the integrations between the systems.
Key points about Shelby County’s implementation of Odyssey include:
“Anyone who understands software implementations, especially large-scale and complex projects, knows there are always adjustments that vendors and clients make together, and Tyler Technologies prides itself on working with our clients to ensure that they, and their constituents, achieve the technology’s intended benefits,” said Bret Dixon, president of Tyler’s Justice Group. “Tyler is proud of our commitment to, and relationship with, thousands of clients across the country, including Shelby County.”
Tyler’s Odyssey solution is being used successfully in more than 600 counties across 21 states, covering more than 100 million people and six of the nation’s top 10 counties.
About Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Tyler Technologies (TYL) is a leading provider of end-to-end information management solutions and services for local governments. Tyler partners with clients to empower the public sector — cities, counties, schools and other government entities — to become more efficient, more accessible and more responsive to the needs of their constituents. Tyler’s client base includes more than 14,000 local government offices in all 50 states, Canada, the Caribbean, the United Kingdom and other international locations. In 2016, Forbes ranked Tyler on their “Most Innovative Growth Companies” list, and it has also named Tyler one of “America’s Best Small Companies” eight times. The company has been included six times on the Barron’s 400 Index, a measure of the most promising companies in America. More information about Tyler Technologies, headquartered in Plano, Texas, can be found at www.tylertech.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006080/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}