DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Innovation in the Juice Market 2016" report to their offering.
The Juice Innovation 2016 report provides a comprehensive overview of current trends in new product development in fruit juices. By featuring 75 innovative brand profiles this report provides an ultimate guide to understanding key factors shaping the global fruit juice market and to explore opportunities.
In the global soft drinks market, fruit juice, nectars and drinks represent the third biggest category following bottled water and carbonates. Consumption of global fruit juice continues to rise, with the market exceeding 80 billion litres in 2015, up 4% from 2014 levels. Matured juice markets in North America and Western Europe are characterised by high consumption levels per capita but limited scope for growth, with the market having declined in these regions in 2015. However, these regional markets play a particularly important role in driving innovation within the category with a specific focus on developing products which offer added value either through some functional benefit or technological advancement.
This report on Juice Innovation examines the key trends and themes driving innovation and new product launches during 2014-2016. The report provides an ultimate guide of some of the most innovative and leading products in a user-friendly presentation format to help you quickly gain an understanding of new product development worldwide.
What this report covers
- Category overview: Overview of key global market trends highlighting consumption trends in the main geographic regions. A broad overview of insights and opportunities, as well as challenges and barriers in the juice market, are also included.
- Key trends in new product development: an overview of main themes driving product development and innovation worldwide.
- Brand profiles: Detailed profiles of 75 innovative juice products across 5 regions, including product image, detailed product information, date of launch, packaging size & type, pricing, key ingredients and description of variants.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Introduction and scope
2. Category overview
- Commentary: Category overview
- Commentary: Functional innovation
- Commentary: Global trends and developments
- Commentary: Key innovation trends
- Commentary: Sector challenges and benefits
3. Brand profiles
3.1 Brand profiles: Flavour innovation
3.2 Brand profiles: Vegetable juice
3.3 Brand profiles: Reduced/low/no sugar
3.4 Brand profiles: Texture
3.5 Brand profiles: Functional offering
3.6 Brand profiles: Premium positioning
3.7 Brand profiles: Child-oriented
3.8 Brand profiles: Packaging innovation
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/lvgvqp/innovation_in_the

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005548/en/