EL DORADO, Ark.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Clean Harbors today unveiled its $120 million state-of-the-art El Dorado facility expansion, a major addition that will help boost the Southern Arkansas economy and bring 120 new jobs to the area.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006502/en/ 
Clean Harbors El Dorado is designed to be North America’s most technologically advanced hazardous waste incinerator. Employing world-class air emissions control technology that meets the most stringent air emissions standards under the Federal Clean Air Act, it is the first American commercial hazardous waste incinerator to come online in nearly 20 years.
“Clean Harbors is proud to make this investment in El Dorado,” said Clean Harbors Chairman and CEO Alan McKim. “We’re confident that these new jobs and increased business activity will benefit the region and the entire state. Our organization is excited to build upon our longtime, strong relationship with El Dorado.”
The expansion adds a third incinerator to the 370-acre facility, which specializes in high-temperature destruction of hazardous and non-hazardous materials. The advanced new equipment nearly doubles the facility’s capacity from 90,000 tons of material annually to approximately 160,000 tons each year.
“The updates and enhancements Clean Harbors is making to its facility in El Dorado are exciting for South Arkansas,” said Mike Preston, executive director of the Arkansas Economic Development Commission. “Not only will the added jobs and investment be an economic stimulus for the area, but the state-of-the-art technology will protect the environment and support good quality of life for all residents.”
Four years in the making – a two-year permitting process followed by a two-year build – the expansion was formally unveiled to state and local officials, along with business leaders. It is the largest single capital infusion to a facility in the 36-year history of Clean Harbors, the leading provider of environmental, energy and industrial services in North America.
The facility specializes in high-temperature incineration of regulated waste materials – such as industrial and laboratory chemicals, manufacturing byproducts, medical waste, fertilizers and other solid and liquid materials – that would otherwise be hazardous to the environment and public health if not properly managed. Destruction in high-temperature incinerators has been determined by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, after extensive review, to be the Best Demonstrated Available Technology (BDAT) for safely and effectively destroying hazardous waste compounds.
“This is truly a cutting-edge facility that will continue to protect the environment and future generations for decades to come,” said McKim. “As the continent’s industry leader in the destruction of hazardous materials, we couldn’t have envisioned a better facility. This is everything we hoped for and more.”
With the expansion, Clean Harbors El Dorado will employ 375 people, including engineers, maintenance mechanics, welders, pipe fitters, hydraulics operators, drivers and industrial service technicians.
Recognized as one of the safest jobsites in the industry, the facility employs a team of highly talented and trained individuals who are committed to the protection of health and the environment within the workplace and throughout the El Dorado community. Clean Harbors El Dorado has been re-certified for four consecutive years as a Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star Site, the U.S. Department of Labor’s highest certification level. In February, the facility surpassed 1 million hours without a lost time workplace injury – a streak of top safety performance that continues today.
“Safety has always been our top priority as a company and will remain our top priority here in El Dorado as we gain even greater capacity with this expansion,” said Dan Roblee, the facility’s general manager.
About Clean Harbors
Clean Harbors (CLH) is North America’s leading provider of environmental, energy and industrial services. The Company serves a diverse customer base, including a majority of the Fortune 500, across the chemical, energy, manufacturing and additional markets, as well as numerous government agencies. These customers rely on Clean Harbors to deliver a broad range of services such as end-to-end hazardous waste management, emergency spill response, industrial cleaning and maintenance, and recycling services. Through its Safety-Kleen subsidiary, Clean Harbors also is North America’s largest re-refiner and recycler of used oil and a leading provider of parts washers and environmental services to commercial, industrial and automotive customers. Founded in 1980 and based in Massachusetts, Clean Harbors operates throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico. For more information, visit www.cleanharbors.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006502/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006502/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}