DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Content Delivery Network Market (2016-2022)" report to their offering.
Content delivery network system can be termed as a distribution network with large number of servers interconnected and deployed in different data centers. The CDN networks offer real-time content to the users with superior performance and improved quality of service, serving large base on internet users on a daily basis. The content is duplicated and stored in multiple cache servers which can be readily accessed by the users, with a direct impact on the internet services.
The Internet and its increasing use over the years has become the prime factor driving the market for CDN networks worldwide. Additionally, the ever growing mobile technology and the use social media have also actively contributed to the market growth. With improved accessibility, storage, and scalability, the market has tremendous opportunities for growth during the forecast period. Technological breakthrough and internets ingress into wider geographies would further drive the market. The two basic types of the CDN networks are Video CDN and Non Video CDN, poplar being streaming with video CDN. The various solutions provided by these networks are CDN Analytics and Monitoring, CDN Delivery, Transparent Caching, Digital Rights Management, Video Indexing, Video Content Management and Online Video streaming solutions.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Market Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Overview
4. Global Content Delivery Network Market by Type
5. Global Content Delivery Network Market by Solution Type
6. Global Content Delivery Network Market by Adjacent Services
7. Global Content Delivery Network Market by Service Provider Type
8. Global Content Delivery Network Market by Organization Size
9. Global Content Delivery Network Market by Vertical
10. Global Content Delivery Network Market by Region
11. Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/tl2lhq/global_content

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005611/en/