RESTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Ligado Networks today announced that it has entered into a cooperation agreement with Topcon Positioning Systems, an important development toward building an advanced network to serve critical American infrastructure. As a result of this collaborative effort, Topcon has filed a letter with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) urging approval of Ligado’s proposal to modify its spectrum licenses to enable ground-based services on its mid-band spectrum.
“After months of testing, analysis and discussion, we are pleased to have reached a resolution with Topcon that provides a path forward for Ligado and ensures protection of all Topcon GNSS devices,” said Doug Smith, Ligado Networks’ president and chief executive officer. “This agreement underscores our ongoing commitment to working collaboratively with companies to find solutions and is further evidence that our planned satellite and ground-based network can peacefully co-exist alongside our spectrum neighbors.”
Topcon chief strategy officer Ivan Di Federico commented, “Over the past many months, we’ve worked closely with Ligado to conduct a thorough analysis. We’ve agreed that the parties will cooperate in the future if their proposal impacts Topcon’s devices in any way. Our agreement is a positive step forward for both companies, and we look forward to coordinating with Ligado over the coming years as it deploys a ground network.”
The agreement with Topcon, a leading manufacturer of high-precision GNSS devices, marks a significant milestone and a step forward in the process to resolve differences among GNSS device manufacturers over Ligado’s proposed use of spectrum for ground-based wireless services in the L-Band. This is the fifth co-existence agreement between Ligado and a major manufacturer. Ligado has also entered into agreements with Deere & Company, Garmin International Inc., Trimble Navigation Limited, and NovAtel Inc. over the past year.
As in the other agreements, a key tenet of the agreement with Topcon requires the parties to coordinate on operating parameters and deployment plans as Ligado rolls out its terrestrial network.
“Today’s agreement is more progress for our company and our country,” Smith said. “We are excited about ongoing opportunities to collaborate with Topcon, including exploring opportunities to build networks that enhance accuracy and reliability of positioning services. This type of advanced network, the first of its kind in North America, would further position the U.S. as a leader in wireless technology and infrastructure by delivering unprecedented performance and enabling the emerging 5G and Internet of Things markets.”
About Ligado Networks
Ligado Networks is readying an advanced satellite-terrestrial network unlike any that currently exists in North America, providing pervasive, highly secure and ultra-reliable connectivity to critical industries anywhere, all the time. Utilizing one-of-a-kind technologies and capabilities and working with our leading technology partners, Ligado Networks is making stronger connections. Visit www.Ligado.com, or follow Ligado on Twitter.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT
This release contains forward-looking statements and information regarding Ligado Networks and its business. Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of the company’s management and are, therefore, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements expressed herein relate only to information as of the date of this release. Ligado Networks has no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release, nor is there any assurance that the plans or strategies discussed in this release will not change.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006044/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006044/en/