MANITOWOC, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Orion Energy Systems, Inc. (OESX), a leading designer and manufacturer of high-performance, energy-efficient LED retrofit lighting systems is pleased to announce it has been awarded over $2.1 million in new government project orders. The orders, which are for retrofit projects in five federal government facilities located in Florida, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas, include a broad spectrum of Orion’s industry-leading retrofit products.
By installing Orion’s products, these facilities will
Orion expects all of the projects to be installed by the end of the 2017 calendar year.
Orion was chosen over competitors due to its successful track record with government facility lighting retrofits, speed of delivery, ease of installation – and the fact that Orion’s products provided the highest performance for the cost.
“Orion has been awarded over $11.6 million in federal government projects over the last 24 months,” said John Scribante, chief executive officer of Orion Energy Systems. “These agencies continue to choose Orion for our depth of experience in government facility retrofits, solid performance on previous projects, excellent experiences with our customer service team, and the fact that Orion products consistently outperform other products in the market, which means more energy savings and lower operating costs.”
About Orion Energy Systems, Inc.
Orion is one of the leaders in the transformation of commercial and industrial buildings to state-of-the-art energy efficient lighting systems and retrofit lighting solutions. Orion manufactures and markets a cutting edge portfolio of products encompassing LED solid-state lighting and high intensity fluorescent lighting. Many of Orion's nearly 100 granted patents and pending patent applications relate to lighting systems that provide exceptional optical and thermal performance, which drive financial, environmental, and work-space benefits for a wide variety of customers in the retrofit markets.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005309/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}