NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Ark Restaurants Corp. (ARKR) announced today that the Board of Directors declared its regular quarterly dividend of 25 cents per share on the Company's common stock to be paid on January 3, 2017 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 20, 2016.
Ark Restaurants owns and operates 21 restaurants and bars, 19 fast food concepts and catering operations primarily in New York City, Florida, Washington, D.C. and Las Vegas, NV. Six restaurants are located in New York City, two are located in Washington, D.C., five are located in Las Vegas, Nevada, three are located in Atlantic City, New Jersey, one is located at the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Ledyard, Connecticut, one is located in Boston, Massachusetts and three locations in Florida. The Las Vegas operations include four restaurants within the New York-New York Hotel & Casino Resort and operation of the hotel's room service, banquet facilities, employee dining room and six food court concepts; and one restaurant within the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino. In Atlantic City, New Jersey, the Company operates a restaurant and a bar in the Resorts Atlantic City Hotel and Casino and a restaurant in the Tropicana Hotel and Casino. The operations at the Foxwoods Resort Casino include one fast food concept and one restaurant. In Boston, Massachusetts, the Company operates a restaurant in the Faneuil Hall Marketplace. The Florida operations include two Rustic Inn’s, one in Dania Beach, Florida and one in Jupiter, Florida; Shuckers in Jensen Beach, Florida; and the operation of five fast food facilities in Tampa, Florida and seven fast food facilities in Hollywood, Florida, each at a Hard Rock Hotel and Casino operated by the Seminole Indian Tribe at these locations.
Except for historical information, this news release contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve unknown risks, and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results or outcomes to be materially different from those anticipated and discussed herein. Important factors that might cause such differences are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, if new information becomes available in the future.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006293/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}