South Korean President Park Geun-hye was impeached by parliament Friday over an influence-peddling scandal that has shaken Asia’s fourth-largest economy and fueled public anger over ties between lawmakers and businesses.
Less than two months since Park made her first apology for involving a friend in state affairs, 234 lawmakers -- more than the required two-thirds of members in the National Assembly -- voted for impeaching her. The vote came after some of the biggest street protests since the nation became a democracy in 1987. Thousands of people, some holding banners, outside parliament cheered at the news.
More from Bloomberg.com: Dear Mr. Trump, About Those U.S. IPhones
Park will now be suspended from power with Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn taking over as interim leader until the constitutional court rules on the motion within 180 days. If the court agrees to remove her from power, a special presidential election will follow in 60 days.
Consumer confidence has tanked to the lowest in years, hurting an economy already struggling with slowing exports. Hundreds of thousands of people have held weekend rallies across the nation to demand her arrest while has Park refused to step down and contended she did not seek any personal gain.
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
 Read here about why Park faced an impeachment vote 
“A vote in favor helps resolve economic uncertainties,” Lee Chang-seon, a research fellow for LG Economic Research Institute in Seoul, said before the vote. “Still there’s a possibility that other uncertainties could appear as the situation unfolds. That could lead to the outflow of foreign investment, which serves as a factor for an interest rise and the weakening of the won.”
The bill will now be moved to the constitutional court for a review by nine justices. Affirmative votes from six of them are required for the motion to be cleared, which will force Park to lose her presidential immunity to prosecution.
More from Bloomberg.com: Koch Industries Says House GOP’s Tax Plan ‘Could Be Devastating’
 Read about how Koreans feel gloomier about economy 
Park’s longtime friend Choi Soon-sil is suspected to have used her relationship with the president to pressure top businesses including Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. to donate tens of millions of dollars to two foundations controlled by Choi. The president’s friend is also suspected to have meddled extensively in state affairs.
“Anything could happen today or up to the next six months or for the next year,” David Kang, a professor of international relations and business at the University of Southern California, said on Bloomberg TV before the vote. “Particularly because so many of the major Korean companies have been implicated in this scandal, we’re in totally uncharted territory."
The allegations prompted hundreds of thousands of people to take to the streets of Seoul and other large cities every weekend to demand Park’s ouster. She has made three apologies to the nation while blaming her associates for the scandal.
At parliamentary hearings this week, the heads of companies that made donations denied they sought political favors in return. Some of them, including GS Group chairman Huh Chang-soo told lawmakers that it was hard to refuse a government request for donation.
Park said this week she was “ready” to face the vote and accept the ruling of the constitution court. She had earlier said she was willing to resign in April to pave the way for an election in June, an offer rejected by not only opposition but also a faction within the ruling Saenuri party.
Updates with analyst comments in fifth and seventh paragraphs.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read South Korea President Park Impeached Over Corruption Scandal on bloomberg.com