SINGAPORE & KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia & HONG KONG--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
First Advantage, a Symphony Technology Group company and the leading global provider of background screening service, won two gold and one bronze award in Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore at the Human Resources Magazine HR Vendors of the Year Awards 2016. The Awards was organised by the Human Resources Magazine, the leading source of HR-related news in Asia. Judged by 60 of the biggest-spending HR directors in Asia, including Fortune 500 companies, local conglomerates and other esteemed Multinational Corporations, this award is one of the most established regional awards celebrating the provider of best HR products and services in Asia.
The judging criteria included client satisfaction, the scope of product and services offered, the company’s contribution to the Human Resources industry and the recognition of the company as a thought leader among others. Since the “Background Screening” category was included in year 2015, First Advantage has consistently been the best performing Background Screening Company against other providers in the Asia Pacific region.
“We are honoured to be recognised as the number one Background Screening provider in South Asia by top Human Resources professionals, including our customers. Accolades like these underscore our continued efforts and commitment to offer best-in-class services. We strive to bring in more innovative offerings to our customers while partnering them in their journey to build a skilled and safe workforce,” said Erik Schmit, Executive Vice President and Managing Director of Asia Pacific at First Advantage.
For more information about the Human Resources Vendors of the Year 2016, click here.
For more information about First Advantage, go to www.fadvasia.com.
About First Advantage
First Advantage provides comprehensive background screening solutions, giving employers access to actionable information that results in faster, more accurate people decisions. With an advanced global technology platform and superior customer service delivered by experts who understand local markets, First Advantage helps customers around the world build fully scalable, configurable screening programs that meet their unique needs. Headquartered in Atlanta, Ga., First Advantage has offices throughout North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. In 2016, First Advantage was recognised as the best Background Screening provider in South Asia Pacific with two Gold and one Bronze award at the prestigious Human Resources Vendor of the Year Awards. First Advantage also clinched the 2016 HRM Asia People’s Choice awards, cementing our leading position in the Asia Pacific region. More information about First Advantage can be accessed at www.fadvasia.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006144/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}