ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Lumos, the breakthrough 48-well in vitro optical stimulation device from Axion BioSystems, has been awarded a coveted spot in the “Top 10 Innovations of 2016” by life science publication The Scientist. The independent panel of judges described Lumos as a “transformative innovation” opening up the powerful technique of optogenetics to in vitro scientists.
Today’s sophisticated biological research requires new tools to take control over complex cell processes and behavior. With optogenetics, researchers can genetically target light-sensitive proteins into cells to control cell function and behavior. “Optogenetics is an extremely powerful technique,“ states Isaac Clements, PhD, Lumos Product Manager at Axion. “It has contributed to numerous advances in in vivo research but adoption on the benchtop has been slow due to the lack of flexible, high throughput optical stimulation devices. Lumos fills that unmet need.”
Addressing a standard SLAS footprint 48-well microplate, Lumos provides LED-based optical stimulation with ground-breaking control and flexibility. Researchers can use any of four wavelengths per well independently or in combination to allow for in-well multiplexing. In addition, each LED can be controlled for microsecond precision and variable intensity. Dr. Jim Ross, Axion’s CTO adds, “Lumos delivers an unprecedented balance of throughput, wavelength selection, and control such that this one device may single-handedly change the research landscape to include many more discoveries based on optical stimulation techniques.”
“Axion continues to be committed to creating innovative products at the cutting edge of research,” says Axion President and CEO, Tom O’Brien. “Our aim is to provide access to powerful technologies while making them simpler, faster, and more insightful. Whether it’s the development of the first multiwell microelectrode array (MEA) or now Lumos, we provide a complete assay solution for the global research community. Recognition from The Scientist that we are meeting this goal is a great honor for our team.”
For more information on Lumos please visit www.axionbiosystems.com/products/lumos.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005335/en/