MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
TripleTree, LLC, a strategic advisor and merchant bank serving innovative and market-leading companies in healthcare, is pleased to announce that it advised Adreima in its acquisition by nThrive, further fortifying nThrive’s patient-to-payment roadmap with the addition of Adreima’s patient-centered and clinically-integrated revenue cycle services to nThrive’s diverse healthcare capabilities.
The addition of the Adreima business to the nThrive portfolio brings new, strategic capabilities that are essential to evolving industry dynamics, including patient eligibility determination and enrollment services, which improve the ability of healthcare providers to identify appropriate programs to fund care and assist patients in gaining access. Adreima's capabilities also include strong programs supporting patient advocacy and self-pay collections.
“As consumers continue to take on more and more responsibility for the their healthcare costs, Adreima’s patient-centered capabilities help doctors and hospitals optimize revenue cycle functions by helping patients find coverage and meet their financial obligations,” said Scott Tudor, Managing Director at TripleTree. “Adreima’s end-to-end revenue cycle management platform is the culmination of continuous innovation and strategic acquisitions and is the perfect complement to nThrive’s existing portfolio of revenue cycle management, analytics and educational services. This is an exciting step for the Company and we’re excited to watch these two great organizations come together.”
“nThrive’s acquisition of Adreima is an exceptional outcome, bringing together the capabilities of two companies to create a market-leading organization,” said Bob Wilhelm, CEO of Adreima. “TripleTree’s understanding of the healthcare market, the firm’s experience with revenue cycle management transactions and a thorough process ensured we found the right strategic partner for the Company, our employees and our clients.”
TripleTree acted as the financial advisor to Adreima for this transaction.
About TripleTreeTripleTree is an independent merchant bank focused on mergers and acquisitions, growth capital, recapitalizations, strategic advisory and principal investing. Since 1997, the firm has advised and invested in some of the most innovative, high-growth businesses in healthcare. For more, visit www.triple-tree.com.
About AdreimaAdreima provides patient-centered, clinically-integrated revenue cycle management services to approximately 450 hospitals nationwide. This unique approach, combined with a comprehensive revenue cycle perspective, ensures clients achieve results by recognizing the full value of services provided. For additional information on Adreima, visit www.adreima.com.
About nThrivenThrive is built on a legacy of excellence. In the past it was known as MedAssets, Precyse and Equation. While each formerly a leader in its own right, the companies have combined talents and capabilities into a single enterprise. From patient-to-payment, nThrive provides all the technology, advisory expertise, services, analytics and education programs health care organizations need to thrive in the communities that they serve. For more information, please visit www.nthrive.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006522/en/