DULUTH, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AGCO Corporation (AGCO), a world-leading manufacturer and distributor of agricultural equipment solutions, announces development partnerships with agricultural technology companies Aglytix and Farmobile to deliver farm optimization services to AGCO customers. The partnerships will enable growers to reduce waste, increase yield and improve profitability through actionable insights for their fleet, in their fields and across their farms. The new services, initially launching through select dealers in North and South America next year, will complement the fleet and operational services already available through AGCO’s Fuse® Connected Services offering.
This release will offer analytics and insights growers and trusted advisors can utilize to visualize, validate, simplify and improve operational decisions. The partnerships will also enable deeper connectivity for mixed fleets of both AGCO and non-AGCO brand equipment, streamlined data management and other farm profitability opportunities.
Agricultural insights company Aglytix is a software company at its core, leveraging proven and patented analytics methods and algorithms to identify challenges and opportunities growers face as they continually strive to increase productivity across their operations. Identifying these factors and, when possible, their causes then quantifying their impact on yield and profits can give growers and their advisors more in-depth information they can use to make better-informed decisions. Learn more about Aglytix and its SolverPod® analytics platform at http://aglytix.com.
Farmobile is a farm data company that helps farmers harness their fleet and field data, and enables growers to collect, store, share and sell their valuable operational data to vetted third parties. Farmobile’s solutions help connect mixed fleets, visualize data in near real-time, streamline data management, and open a new revenue stream for growers, allowing them to harvest not just their crops, but their data as well. Learn more about Farmobile at http://farmobile.com.
“We are extremely excited about these partnerships. The unique expertise Aglytix and Farmobile bring to AGCO allows us to offer an entirely new level of productivity support and insight for growers,” said Eric Hansotia, senior vice president, Global Crop Cycle, Advanced Technology Solutions and Dealer Tech Support at AGCO. “Many machines have gotten pretty good at effectively collecting data; solutions like these help increase our customers’ ability to really harness the power of that data – easily analyze it and use it. Now, with the help of these partners, we can further deliver on AGCO’s Fuse promise to connect the mixed fleet, improve efficiency and increase farm profitability.”
“At Farmobile we have a mantra, ‘farmer power;’ it’s about empowering farmers and giving them tools to be in control of their success,” said Jason Tatge, founder and CEO at Farmobile. “Increasingly, data plays an essential role in that success. We can help customers harness data’s value, while ensuring they maintain ultimate ownership and control over it. This partnership with AGCO allows us to provide that on a much broader scale than ever before, without compromising our position on farmer data privacy.”
“Aglytix takes a fact-based, scientific approach to all of the analytics we deliver,” said Jerry Johnson, founder and CEO at Aglytix. “Agriculture has a wealth of data, little of which is used effectively. Our patented SolverPod analytics platform takes a lean farming approach and opens up a new world understanding for growers by putting this data to work to identify yield limiting and excessive cost issues. It will be turn-key for AGCO customers, and will add deeper insight and decision support for growers and their trusted crop advisors to make the best-informed decisions possible.”
AGCO’s partnerships with Aglytix and Farmobile are functions of AGCO’s Fuse approach to precision agriculture and services, its pioneering open approach and transparent partnering model. Fuse promises optimized uptime, grower data privacy and coordinated logistics across a seamlessly connected crop cycle. AGCO, Aglytix and Farmobile share the same position on farmer data ownership and privacy, and the services this partnership will enable will be fully aligned to provide a seamless customer experience.
Aglytix and Farmobile offerings will be available through select AGCO dealers in North and South America in 2017. Further roll-outs are slated for 2018 after evaluation and refinement of the offering.
To learn more about AGCO’s Fuse partnering model and open approach to precision agriculture, visit http://www.AGCOcorp.com/Fuse.
About AGCO
AGCO Corporation (AGCO) is a global leader in the design, manufacture and distribution of agricultural solutions and supports more productive farming through its full line of equipment and related services. AGCO products are sold through five core brands, Challenger®, Fendt®, GSI®, Massey Ferguson® and Valtra®, supported by Fuse® precision technologies and farm optimization services, and are distributed globally through a combination of approximately 3,000 independent dealers and distributors in more than 140 countries. Founded in 1990, AGCO is headquartered in Duluth, GA, USA. In 2015, AGCO had net sales of $7.5 billion. For more information, visit http://www.AGCOcorp.com. For company news, information and events, please follow us on Twitter: @AGCOCorp. For financial news on Twitter, please follow the hashtag #AGCOIR.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005971/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}