LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
According to the latest market study released by Technavio, the global nucleic acid testing (NAT) market is expected to grow at a CAGR of almost 10% during the forecast period.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005127/en/ 
This research report titled ‘Global Nucleic Acid Testing Market 2016-2020’ provides an in-depth analysis of the market in terms of revenue and emerging market trends. This market research report also includes up to date analysis and forecasts for various market segments and all geographical regions.
NAT technology is quickly gaining acceptance and transforming healthcare industry. The market is still in a nascent stage and has tremendous growth opportunities in varied application segments. This technology has aided in reduction of costs for genome sequencing which has ensured its seamless adoption in hospitals, clinics, and research laboratories. Companies like Roche Molecular Systems, Hologic, and Siemens Healtineers are world leaders in this market.
The impressive growth of NAT market is due to its high demand for disease detection, accuracy of procedure, and faster results. Some of the new technologies in the NAT market are genome engineering, genome editing, germline gene therapy, and genetic analysis of rare disorders among others.
Request a sample report: http://www.technavio.com/request-a-sample?report=54909
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
Based on technology, the report categorizes the global NAT market into the following segments:
The top three revenue generating technology segments in the global NAT market are discussed below:
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
“Polymerase chain reaction is an important technique in molecular biology, used for the amplification of genetic material. It is one of the cheapest and most useful tools available for the diagnosis and detection of infectious diseases, paternity disputes, cancer and other genetic disorders. A wide range of PCR systems like Real-time (RT) PCR, quantitative real-time PCR (Q-RT PCR), reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR), multiplex PCR, and nested PCR are available. The several variants of PCR present in the market have contributed in the diagnosis and detection of diseases efficiently,” says Srinivas Sashidhar, one of the lead analysts at Technavio for in-vitro diagnostics research.
PCR constituted the largest segment of NAT testing market in 2015. Pharmaceutical companies are involved in developing variants for the technology, paving way for better accuracy and cost-effectiveness. This technology is expected to remain dominant over the forecast period, due to its cost-effectiveness and user-friendly features.
Strand displacement amplification (SDA)
SDA is a molecular diagnostics technique where isothermal nucleic acid amplification is carried out. This is an in-vitro DNA amplification technique, which is performed before the hybridization process. The isothermal nature of the process eliminates the need for thermocyclers, which makes it extremely cost effective. These isothermal NAT processes are extremely fast and are widely adopted in molecular diagnostics.
Some of the isothermal based amplification processes are Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP), Helicase-dependent amplification (HDA) and Nicking enzyme amplification reaction (NEAR). With the growing demand for efficient systems, SDA technology has a wide range of applications in various industries. Pharmaceutical companies are continuously engaged in developing variants for the technology, to enable better accuracy and cost-effectiveness.
Ligase chain reaction (LCR)
Ligase chain reaction a DNA amplification technique in molecular diagnostics which uses two major enzymes- ligase and polymerase. In each cycle, the target nucleic acid molecule doubles. A thermostable ligase is used to minimize the target-independent ligation, which also helps in avoiding the need for fresh ligase at every step. The amplification time is greatly reduced as there are only two enzymes involved in the process. This makes for a much quicker diagnosis of genes.
“LCR technology is widely used for the detection of single base mutations, which are responsible for causing genetic diseases. LCR and PCR are used to detect diseases like gonorrhea and chlamydia. When compared to other molecular diagnostics methods, LCR is emerging as the most sensitive methods with high specificity for known single nucleotide polymorphism detection. LCR technology is expected to grow at a steady pace in the market, due to the sensitivity and specificity of the amplification process,” says Srinivas.
The top vendors highlighted by Technavio’s research analysts in this report are:
Browse Related Reports:
Do you need a report on a market in a specific geographical cluster or country but can’t find what you’re looking for? Don’t worry, Technavio also takes client requests. Please contact enquiry@technavio.com with your requirements and our analysts will be happy to create a customized report just for you.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. The company develops over 2000 pieces of research every year, covering more than 500 technologies across 80 countries. Technavio has about 300 analysts globally who specialize in customized consulting and business research assignments across the latest leading edge technologies.
Technavio analysts employ primary as well as secondary research techniques to ascertain the size and vendor landscape in a range of markets. Analysts obtain information using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches, besides using in-house market modeling tools and proprietary databases. They corroborate this data with the data obtained from various market participants and stakeholders across the value chain, including vendors, service providers, distributors, re-sellers, and end-users.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005127/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005127/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}