CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Northern Trust (NTRS) has received American Financial Technology Awards for Best Global Deployment and Best Infrastructure Initiative. In addition, Northern Trust’s Chief Technology Officer (CTO), Scott Murray, received the Best Buy Side Technology Executive award.
Northern Trust’s enhanced foreign exchange solutions, built on software developed in an exclusive partnership with financial technology provider BEx LLC, won the award for Best Global Deployment based on:
Northern Trust’s virtual desktop infrastructure, leveraging hyperconverged infrastructure, won Best Infrastructure Initiative based on:
CTO Scott Murray was honored with the Best Buy Side Technology Executive award for spearheading global infrastructure integrations, leading projects that successfully managed operational risk, instituting information technology programs and deployments to significantly reduce costs, and leveraging new technology in a unique way.
“It’s an honor to be recognized individually, but more importantly it’s gratifying to see the hard work and dedication of our technology team recognized with the American Financial Technology Awards. At Northern Trust, we think the combination of client-oriented design and innovative technology will continue to bring value to our clients and employees,” said Scott Murray, Northern Trust Chief Technology Officer. “Technology is an important foundation for the growth and success of our clients and ensuring we have state-of-the-art systems to quickly and effectively respond to their needs and challenges.”
Hosted by Waters magazine and WatersTechnology.com, the American Financial Technology Awards recognize excellence in the deployment and management of financial technology within the asset management and investment banking communities. A panel of senior financial services technology leaders and Waters’ editorial staff determine the award winners.
About Northern Trust
Northern Trust Corporation (NTRS) is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking to corporations, institutions, affluent families and individuals. Founded in Chicago in 1889, Northern Trust has offices in the United States in 19 states and Washington, D.C., and 22 international locations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. As of September 30, 2016, Northern Trust had assets under custody of US$6.7 trillion, and assets under management of US$946 billion. For more than 125 years, Northern Trust has earned distinction as an industry leader for exceptional service, financial expertise, integrity and innovation. Visit northerntrust.com or follow us on Twitter @NorthernTrust.
© 2016 Northern Trust Corporation. Head Office: 50 South La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 U.S.A. Incorporated with limited liability in the U.S. Products and services provided by subsidiaries of Northern Trust Corporation may vary in different markets and are offered in accordance with local regulation. For more information, read our legal and regulatory information about individual market offices.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006001/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}