DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "India Router and Switch Market (2016-2022)" report to their offering.
In the last five years, India's Routers and Ethernet Switches market has registered significant growth. Routers can be categorized as - wired and wireless, wherein wireless dominates both in revenue and volume terms.
India being one of the potential markets for routers is increasingly witnessing growth in demand for wireless routers. Whereas Ethernet switches can be segmented as managed and un-managed switches. Presently, Managed switch segment accounted for dominant market revenue share; increasing amount of data traffic over the network coupled with increasing bandwidth requirements in the enterprise segment are driving the market for managed switches.
According to research, India's Router and Switch market is exhibiting growth on the back of increasing usage of internet enabled devices, government initiatives like Digital India, Smart Cities and Make in India, increasing internet penetration, emergence of IoT and increasing adoption of solutions such as social, mobility, analytics and cloud.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Executive Summary
2. Introduction
3. Global Router Market Overview
4. Asia-Pacific Router Market Overview
5. Middle-East & Africa Router Market Overview
6. India Router Market Overview
7. India Router Market Overview, By Specification (Quarter-wise Analysis of 2015)
8. India Residential Router Market Revenues
9. India Enterprise Router Market Revenues, By Size of Employees
10. India Government Router Market Revenues
11. India Transportation Router Market Revenues
12. India BFSI Router Market Revenues
13. India Healthcare & Hospitality Router Market Revenues
14. India Telecommunication Router Market Revenues
15. India Educational Institutions Router Market Revenues
16. India Router Market Price Point Analysis, By Verticals
17. India Router Market Opportunity Assessment, By Features
18. India Router Market Opportunity Assessment, By Verticals
19. India Residential Gateways Router Market Overview
20. India Router Competitive Landscape
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/vcfjb9/india_router_and

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005242/en/