Glencore Plc, the world’s biggest commodity trader, will reinstate its dividend next year and plans to pay out a minimum of $1 billion annually following a rebound in commodity prices and a reduction in its debt.
A total of $1 billion will be paid out next year in equal parts in the first and second half, the Baar, Switzerland-based company said in a statement on Thursday. From 2018, Glencore will pay $1 billion annually as well as at least 25 percent of free-cash flow from its industrial division.
More from Bloomberg.com: OPEC Confounds Skeptics, Agrees to First Oil Cuts in 8 Years
A rally in coal and zinc prices led Glencore shares to triple this year and bolstered profits, easing concern over its debt position. Just over a year ago, a rout in commodities forced the company to unveil a drastic debt-reduction plan involving a $2.5 billion share sale, spending cuts, shuttered mines, asset disposals and canceled dividends.
Glencore last month hit its target for asset sales this year of $4 billion to $5 billion. It also plans to reduce net debt, which stood at about $30 billion last year, to between $16.5 billion and $17.5 billion by December.
More from Bloomberg.com: Goldman Says Trump's Presidency Will Benefit Stocks in Almost Every Sector
Earnings from its trading division this year will be at the upper end of its forecast range of $2.5 billion to $2.7 billion thanks to “supportive market conditions” in the second half.
The company forecast free-cash flow of about $6.5 billion next year from earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of about $14 billion.
Thermal coal has jumped more than 70 percent this year as a significant change in Chinese government policy governing working days at mines curbed production in the country, the world’s biggest producer. Zinc touched the highest since 2007 this week after China’s top economic commission approved a $36 billion plan on new rail links around Beijing, boosting demand for industrial raw materials.
Higher prices provide a path for the return of dividends, said analysts at UBS Group AG before today’s statement. They predicted Glencore may pay 5 cents a share when it reports full-year results in March.
More from Bloomberg.com: Wall Street Wins Again as Trump Picks Bankers, Billionaires
Glencore hit a 16-month high on Nov. 11 of 292 pence in London, more than double the price from last year’s share sale. The stock fell 0.7 percent to 279.3 pence yesterday, valuing the company at $50 billion.
Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is a senior independent non-executive director at Glencore.
Adds trading profit forecast, details from statement starting in fourth paragraph.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Glencore to Pay $1 Billion Dividend Next Year After Rally on bloomberg.com