MEXICO CITY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
BYD debuted SkyRail, its urban layered transportation solution during the biannual C40 Mayors Summit in Mexico City today in front of an audience of more than 500 guests, including global city mayors, NGO representatives, business leaders and media. BYD’s urban layered transportation solution aims to tackle air pollution and traffic congestion, which will bring revolutionary changes to urban transportation in growing cities around the world. BYD Chairman Wang Chuanfu called for every country, every city and every person to do what they can do to “cool the earth by one degree” through the use of clean technology. Hundreds of city mayors agreed with this call and will co-work with BYD to fight against global warming and call for more and more people to take climate action. During the press conference, BYD Chairman Wang signed a contract with Cape Town, South Africa for 11 ebuses, as well as an MOU with Edmonton international airport, Canada for electric buses, cars, PV panels, energy storage systems and solar street lights.
Air pollution and traffic congestion are universal problems for all cities that dramatically slow down economic development. As such, cities need to address these problems as soon as possible. BYD, holding its green dreams in mind, is developing the best new solutions to deal with the universal urban problems of air pollution and traffic congestion. The launch of BYD urban layered transportation solutions, including the 7+4 strategy, have attracted so many global leading city mayors’ attentions.
BYD took five years and invested 5 billion yuan to develop the SkyRail, and just launched it in Shenzhen, China this past Oct. Today, the SkyRail is officially launching for the international market in Mexico City. This marks the company’s entry into the multi-trillion yuan mass transit market. BYD SkyRail is a strategic solution for each global city to tackle traffic congestion. As a mass transit alternative with a relatively smaller passenger capacity than a traditional subway, BYD’s “SkyRail” delivers numerous benefits, including: capital expenditure at only 1/5 of that of metro, construction period is only 1/3 of that of metro, excellent topographic adaptability due to higher climbing ability and smaller turning radius, reduced noise to allow travel through architectural complexes, great views of developing cityscapes, an independent right of way, flexible management to allow for capacity between 10,000 to 30,000 passengers an hour (each way) and a max speed of up to 80km/h. It is easily applicable to heavy traffic routes in small and medium sized cities, and CBD’s and routes connecting tourist attractions in large cities.
After the press conference, Chairman Wang met with 10+ mayors to discuss how to tackle climate change and urban issues. Wang spoke about SkyRail, and emphasized how important it is to the traffic congestion. The mayors will co-work with BYD to promote SkyRail. During C40, BYD also presented its Adaptation Plans & Assessments award to the City of Paris.
As a Chinese company, BYD has more than a decade of successful work in the international market. Now, as an outstanding representative of Chinese companies, BYD presented itself on an international stage to a large number of global mayors, and demonstrates China’s innovative and high-tech manufacturing capabilities during C40. BYD will sure be increasingly influential in China and internationally.
About C40
C40 is a network of the world’s megacities committed to addressing climate change. C40 supports cities to collaborate effectively, share knowledge and drive meaningful, measurable and sustainable action on climate change. Cities are where the future happens first. The C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group, now in its 10th year, connects more than 80 of the world’s greatest cities, representing over 600 million people and one quarter of the global economy. Created and led by cities, C40 is focused on tackling climate change and driving urban action that reduces greenhouse gas emissions and climate risks, while increasing the health, wellbeing and economic opportunities of urban citizens.
About BYD
BYD is one of the world’s largest companies specializing in battery technology. BYD’s green mission to “solve the whole problem” has made the company an industry pioneer and leader in several high-tech sectors including high-efficiency automobiles, electrified public transportation, environmentally friendly energy storage, affordable solar power and information technology and original design manufacturing services.
As the world’s largest manufacturer of rechargeable batteries, BYD’s mission to create safer and more environmentally friendly battery technologies has led to the development of the BYD Iron Phosphate (or “Fe”) Battery. This fire-safe, completely recyclable and incredibly long-cycle technology has become the core of its clean energy platform, which has expanded into automobiles, buses, trucks, utility vehicles and energy storage facilities. BYD and its shareholders, including Warren Buffett, see these environmentally and economically forward products as the way of the future. For more information, visit www.byd.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006229/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}