TOKYO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
OKI (TOKYO:6703) today announced that the delivery of Teller Cash Recycler G7 (“TG7” hereinafter) to Bradesco, the leading private Brazilian bank. OKI Brasil S.A, an OKI group Brazilian ATM business company, delivered 100 units of TG7, a cash recycling equipment designed for cashier, back office and treasury environments.
The installed 100 units of TG7 are already in operation in branches scattered in several Brazilian states. The installation of TG7 is to pursue the efficiency in process involving cash at the branches, and that will be used in the cashier environments. Designed to automate the receiving, withdrawal and ballot counting, the TG7 is the most accurate and rapid recycling equipment in the market, being able to process up to 12 banknotes per second and having banknote storage up to 14,350 as well as involving cassette stacker system which secures higher security for operation than existing tape stacker system.
The equipment uses high precision mechanics and is manufactured in Brazil according to strict quality standards, aiming to provide customers recycler devices with high availability. In addition to the sale of TG7, OKI Brasil also provides the installation and maintenance of this equipment for a period of three years, throughout the national territory.
"This is OKI Brasil’s first sale to Bradesco and besides positioning OKI Brasil in all major Brazilian banks, the deal strengthens the presence of cash recycling technology, which has been disseminated in the Brazilian financial sector as an alternative to increasing productivity and reduce operating costs in cash operations,” said Wilton Ruas, the CEO of OKI Brasil. According to the CEO, besides improving processes, recycling technology present in the TG7 also reduces the need for available circulating money in cashiers. "Once the banknotes are deposited, they become automatically available for future withdrawals, in a way that the amount of cash needed to keep the operation is also reduced," he explains.
About OKI Electric Industry (OKI)
Founded in 1881, OKI Electric Industry is Japan's leading telecommunications manufacturer in the Info-telecom field. Headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, OKI provides top-quality products, technologies, and solutions to customers through its info-telecom systems and printer operations. Its various business divisions function synergistically to bring to market exciting new products and technologies that meet a wide range of customer needs in various sectors. Visit OKI's global website at http://www.oki.com/.
Notes:

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005612/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}