LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Paris, France-based asset manager DNCA Investments is consolidating systems and automating its front and middle office with the Charles River Investment Management Solution (Charles River IMS). The SaaS-based platform will streamline portfolio management, trading and compliance processes across DNCA’s Equites, Listed Derivatives, Fixed Income and FX operations. The firm is also ensuring the accuracy and timeliness of front office position data with Charles River’s Investment Book of Record (IBOR).
“With Charles River, we plan to manage all asset classes, products and strategies on a single solution,” said Grégoire Scheiff, COO, DNCA. “By automating our investment process, Charles River will help our portfolio managers and traders focus on issues that require their expertise. We should also have the capabilities and scale to keep up with changing business demands and growth.”
Charles River IMS was chosen to support DNCA’s institutional and wealth management businesses for several reasons:
“Our multi-asset solution simplifies operations for institutional asset managers across their front and middle office,” said Tom Driscoll, Global Managing Director, Charles River. “SaaS delivery allows clients, like DNCA, to readily utilize our latest technology with accurate data, to make better informed investment decisions.”
About DNCADNCA is a French asset management company set up in 2000 by wealth-management specialists acting on behalf of private and institutional investors. With a defensive slant, the company seeks to optimize the risk/return ratio on its portfolios. With a team of more than 92 staff, DNCA has developed expertise in European and international equities (long only and absolute return), diversified fund management, convertible bonds and Eurozone bonds. The quality of the company’s investment management, which regularly wins awards from the financial press, has enabled the company to enjoy swift growth over the past fifteen years. AUM currently stand at €18.9bn (as at 12/31/2015).
About Charles RiverCharles River enables sound and efficient investing across all asset classes. Over 350 firms worldwide use Charles River IMS to manage more than US$25 Trillion in assets in the institutional investment, wealth management and hedge fund industries. Our SaaS-based solution automates and simplifies investment management on a single platform – from portfolio decision support and risk management through trading and post-trade settlement, with integrated risk and compliance throughout. Headquartered in Burlington, Massachusetts, we support clients globally with more than 750 employees in 11 regional offices. For more information, please visit www.crd.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005001/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}