SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Second paragraph, second sentence of release dated November 23, 2016 should read: During the same conference theCUBE will be interviewing Viptela Vice President of Product Management Ramesh Prabagaran and a Network Architect for a leading US food distributor.
The corrected release reads:
VIPTELA EXTENDS ENTERPRISE WANS TO THE CLOUD
SD-WAN Platform Connects AWS Cloud Resources to the Network Like a Branch Office
Viptela, Inc., the Software-Defined WAN (SD-WAN) company, today announced a solution on Amazon Web Services (AWS) that allows enterprises to seamlessly add AWS resources to their Wide Area Network (WAN). This relationship extends all the SD-WAN capabilities offered by the Viptela platform to AWS so resources can be managed and provide the same user experience as if they were hosted in a company’s own data centers.
Viptela will demonstrate its SD-WAN platform integration with Amazon Virtual Private Clouds (Amazon VPCs) at the AWS re:Invent 2016 Booth 131 from November 28 to December 2. During the same conference theCUBE will be interviewing Viptela Vice President of Product Management Ramesh Prabagaran and a Network Architect for a leading US food distributor.
All Viptela SD-WAN elements can also be deployed as Amazon Machine Images (AMI) in Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud instances.
The Viptela SD-WAN platform provides ubiquitous connectivity, zero-trust security, end-to-end segmentation with application aware SLA and QoS policies for enterprise WANs that span data centers, branches, remotes offices and cloud resources. It enables organizations to mix and match a variety of connections from different service providers including MPLS, broadband, 3G/4G LTE, satellite and point-to-point links and manage them as a single network. Viptela enables cloud applications running on AWS to provide the same user experience as if they were hosted in a company’s own data centers.
“The AWS Cloud is becoming an extension, and in some cases, a replacement for enterprise data centers. AWS is being used to host applications, workloads and more,” said Ramesh Prabagaran, VP of Product Management & Marketing for Viptela. “We’ve made it possible for enterprises to extend their WAN to AWS Cloud resources so they can be managed like any other branch, and take advantage of all the quality of service and bandwidth optimization benefits provided by our SD-WAN platform.”
About ViptelaViptela provides Software-Defined Wide Area Network (SD-WAN) technology that virtualizes WAN infrastructure. The platform allows global companies to build carrier agnostic, policy-controlled and cost-effective WANs. Viptela has been deployed at thousands of sites by more than 25 Fortune 500 enterprises; and major carriers including Verizon and Singtel are using Viptela to deliver managed SD-WAN services. The company has been named a Next Billion Dollar Startup by Forbes and Red Herring 100 Company. Viptela is backed by Redline Capital, Northgate Capital and Sequoia Capital. For more information, visit: viptela.com or follow us on Twitter @viptela.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161123005348/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}