SANTA ROSA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AltaPacific Bancorp (ABNK), the parent company of AltaPacific Bank, today reported the promotion of Frank Basirico to President and Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp and Bank, effective immediately.
Frank joined the Company in November 2009 and has been serving as the Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since October 2015 after being promoted from his role as Executive Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions for the Bancorp and President, Southern California Region. In May 2014 Frank was appointed to the Board of Directors of AltaPacific Bancorp and AltaPacific Bank.
“Frank has been essential to the strategic development and implementation of the Company’s merger and acquisition program, de novo branch expansion, recruitment of experienced and established bankers, and solid organic growth. Frank’s professional relationships within the banking industry continue to create new opportunities for the Bank and further advance our strategic expansion initiatives,” reported Charles O. Hall, Chief Executive Officer. Continuing, Mr. Hall stated, “The Board of Directors recognize Frank’s contributions and devotion to the Company’s success. Frank is a well-respected Banker who continues to remain focused on building value for our employees, customers and stakeholders.”
AltaPacific Bancorp is the parent company for AltaPacific Bank. The Company’s stock trades over the counter under the symbol ABNK. AltaPacific Bank is an independent business bank headquartered in Santa Rosa, California and has additional banking offices in Covina, Ontario, Riverside and Temecula, California. The bank is focused on meeting the specialized needs of small to medium-sized businesses and professionals throughout California. For additional information, please contact us at (707) 236-1500 or online at www.apbconnect.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006404/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}