SAN RAMON, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Chevron Products Company, a Chevron U.S.A. Inc. division, maker of the Delo brand of technologically advanced engine oils, lubricants and coolants today announced the availability of its larger and higher performing line of Delo 400 API CK-4 and FA-4 heavy duty engine oils (HDEO). This new product line is engineered using an advanced formulation of Chevron’s proprietary ISOSYN engine oil formulation, ISOSYN Advanced Technology.
Chevron’s ISOSYN Advanced Technology is a unique combination of Chevron’s industry leading formulating expertise, high performance additive chemistry and premium base oils that helps extend the durability of critical diesel engine parts. The new Delo 400 with ISOSYN Advanced Technology product line offers up to:
*Improvements are relative to test limits for the prior generation of HDEOs
“We’re seeing a major shift in how our customers select engine oil,” said Rommel Atienza, Chevron Lubricants North America Commercial Brands Manager. “Oil selection is a strategic business decision. Not all business needs are the same, so it is important that customers have options. In preparation for the new API CK-4 and API FA-4 categories, Chevron set out to develop a range of Delo 400 heavy duty engine oils to provide choices for both on and off road customers to meet their specific goals.”
Following a four-year development phase, the new Delo 400 products have gone through the most diverse and extensive field test program in Chevron’s history. Testing of the Delo 400 API CK-4 and FA-4 products with ISOSYN Advanced Technology was conducted on over 950 engines across a range of on-and-off highway vehicles including:
“With millions of miles and tens of thousands of hours of testing across nine industries, we didn’t focus solely on on-highway fleets, but emphasized a more well-rounded approach to assist the trucking, construction, agriculture, mining, inland marine industries, among others,” said Len Badal, Chevron Lubricants Global Delo Brand Manager. “With ISOSYN Advanced Technology, Chevron’s next generation of engine oil formulation, we’ve succeeded in creating a new Delo 400 product line with the longest drain interval capabilities and the best engine protection in our company’s history.”
Chevron conducted its most recent teardown on a refrigeration hauler owned by Boaty’s Transport located in Jackson, GA. The teardown was conducted on a Kenworth T680 truck with PACCAR MX-14 engine after 530,000 miles with oil drains at 40,000 miles with the Delo 400 ZFA SAE 10W-30 API FA-4.
“After 530,000 miles of running the Delo 400 ZFA SAE 10W-30, we are pleased to see how well it protected our key engine components, while also providing our company up to two percent fuel efficiency benefits from the previous SAE 15W-40 product we were using in the fleet,” said Michael Boatwright, owner of Boaty’s Transport. “The combination of engine protection and improved fuel efficiency is a real plus in helping us manage our costs in this competitive business.”
The 2017 Delo 400 Product Line Availability
Leveraging the powerful ISOSYN Advanced Technology, the new Delo 400 product line is on schedule and has begun shipping, offering optimized performance and better engine protection than any prior Delo product, extending the life of the vehicle and helping minimize the cost of ownership.
Products Available December 1, 2016:
Products Available April 2017:
Continuing Existing Delo 400 Products:
Chevron’s attention to detail goes beyond the oil extending to Delo’s package and label design. Chevron has unveiled a new look for the Delo 400 API CK-4 and FA-4 product lines – both available in a variety of viscosity grades – to ensure optimal differentiation between products thus decreasing any confusion. The new design system includes new jug colors, revised label designs, and a new coordinated label and cap system.
About Chevron Products Company
Chevron Products Company is a division of an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron Corporation (CVX) headquartered in San Ramon, CA. A full line of lubrication and coolant products are marketed through this organization. Select brands include Havoline®, Delo® and Havoline Xpress Lube®. Chevron Intellectual Property LLC owns patented technology in advanced lubricants products, new generation base oil technology and coolants.
For more information go to: www.ChevronLubricants.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005477/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}