DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Drug of Abuse Testing Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2022" report to their offering.
The global drug of abuse testing market accounted for $4,407.8 million in 2015 and it is expected to grow at a CAGR of 9.6% during 2016-2022.
The increased production and trafficking of illegal drugs is one of the major factors leading to increased demand for drug of abuse testing. This is also responsible for increased drug-related death and accidents and loss of productivity at work. According to United Nations (UN) publication, approximately 200,000 people die every year due to drug of abuse related death. The increased utilization of drug of abuse testing may prevent such incidents by increased monitoring of people consuming illicit drug.
An emphasis is being laid on workplace safety, in order to increase safety and productivity of the employees across the globe. In addition, the global increase in road accidents and death rates due to drugs consumption is expected to increase the demand of drug of abuse testing, which will help in reducing the potential number of incidences and loss of life. The technological advancements are also being used for the development of drug of abuse testing products, and improving their analytical capabilities.
The restraints associated with the growth of the global drug of abuse testing market include the legalization of drugs, social issues associated with drug of abuse testing, and inability to detect low-dose designer drugs.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Global Drug Of Abuse Testing Market Size And Forecast (2012-2022)
5. Global Drug Of Abuse Testing Market, By Product
6. Global Drug Of Abuse Testing Market, By Sample
7. Global Drug Of Abuse Testing Market, By End-User
8. Global Drug Of Abuse Testing Market, By Geography
9. Competitive Positioning And Market Share Analysis
10. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/mqx8nq/global_drug_of

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005721/en/