NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
NFP, a leading insurance broker and consultant that provides employee benefits, property & casualty, retirement and individual private client solutions, announced the enhancement of its compliance team with the promotion of two senior leaders.
Suzanne Spradley has been promoted to Senior Vice President, Associate General Counsel, assuming the role of Chief Compliance Officer. In her new role, Spradley will be responsible for overseeing the compliance and regulatory aspects of NFP’s insurance and corporate governance initiatives. During her nine-year tenure with NFP, Spradley has spearheaded the company’s strategic direction for insurance regulatory compliance, successfully building and leading the Benefits Compliance team and centralized Licensing department.
In addition, Chase Cannon has been appointed to Vice President, Deputy Chief Compliance Officer of Benefits Compliance. During his six-year tenure with NFP, Cannon excelled at providing strategic guidance to benefits advisors and their clients, demonstrating sharp compliance and legal acumen. Cannon will be responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the Benefits Compliance team and contributing to the overall success of NFP’s compliance department and capabilities.
Tim Robb, NFP’s Executive Vice President and General Counsel, commented, “Our focus on compliance has always been a cornerstone of our success. In addition, given the highly regulated nature of our business and the political landscape, our focus on compliance will be more valuable than ever to our advisors and clients. The expertise of both Suzanne and Chase will be instrumental in charting a path forward for NFP.”
About NFP
At NFP Corp., our solutions and expertise are matched only by our personal commitment to each client's goals. We’re a leading insurance broker and consultant that provides employee benefits, property & casualty, retirement and individual private client solutions through our licensed subsidiaries and affiliates.
NFP has more than 3,400 employees and global capabilities. Our expansive reach gives us access to highly rated insurers, vendors and financial institutions in the industry, while our locally based employees tailor each solution to meet our clients' needs. We’ve become one of the largest insurance brokerage, consulting and wealth management firms by building enduring relationships with our clients and helping them realize their goals.
Recently NFP was ranked the 2nd fastest-growing US large-group employee benefits broker by Employee Benefit Adviser. In addition, Business Insurance ranked us as the 5th largest global benefits broker by revenue, the 4th largest US-based privately owned broker and the 11th largest broker of US business. PlanSponsor ranked us the 5th largest executive benefits provider of nonqualified deferred compensation by number of plans, and we were ranked 11th in personal lines P&C revenue by Insurance Journal.
For more information, visit NFP.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005764/en/