NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cowen Group, Inc. (COWN) (“Cowen” or the “Company”) announced that it recently onboarded its first prime brokerage customers in its newly launched international prime brokerage platform headquartered in London.
Cowen’s international prime brokerage platform partners with investment managers based in the UK, Europe and other international jurisdictions to address their needs for custody as well as trade execution on both a cash and swap basis. In addition, Cowen offers clients margin financing and stock loan services utilizing its proprietary prime brokerage offering and clearing agreements with major financial institutions. As is the case in its US prime brokerage offering, Cowen’s international prime brokerage platform also provides portfolio reporting, complete operational support, along with access to Cowen’s research, industry conferences and other corporate access events.
Kevin LoPrimo, Managing Director and Head of International Prime Brokerage said, “As we onboard our first UK and Europe-based clients, our goal is to deliver the comprehensive prime brokerage and outsourced trading solutions that have satisfied our clients’ needs in the US for many years. This offering will provide local managers with a comprehensive, high caliber offering at a time when larger bank-owned prime brokers are curtailing their support of hedge funds.”
The London-based international prime brokerage team includes a deep bench of prime brokerage sales, client service and trading personnel hired in recent months. This 10 person team consists of personnel that primarily face local clients. The team is supported by Cowen’s existing supervisory, compliance and operational support staff, including personnel based in New York and the 28 person client support team based in Belfast, Northern Ireland.
To learn more about Cowen’s international prime brokerage and outsourced trading solutions, please contact:
About Cowen Group, Inc.
Cowen Group, Inc. is a diversified financial services firm and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, provides alternative asset management, investment banking, research, sales and trading and prime brokerage services through its two business segments: Ramius and its affiliates make up the Company’s alternative investment segment, while Cowen and Company, a member of FINRA and SIPC, and its affiliates make up the Company’s broker-dealer segment. Ramius provides alternative asset management solutions to a global client base and manages a significant portion of Cowen’s proprietary capital. Cowen and Company and its affiliates offer industry focused investment banking for growth-oriented companies, domain knowledge-driven research, a sales and trading platform for institutional investors and a comprehensive suite of prime brokerage services. Founded in 1918, the firm is headquartered in New York and has offices worldwide. For additional information, visit www.cowen.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005308/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}