NORFOLK, Neb.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Real Living Real Estate, one of the nation's leading real estate franchisors and a member of the HSF Affiliates LLC family of real estate brokerage franchise networks, today announced that a Northeast Nebraska-based start-up firm has joined the network operating as Real Living Advantage Real Estate.
“I’m very excited to be part of such an extraordinary team that will be able to leverage a higher level of real estate expertise,” said Sandy Wolfe, managing broker and co-owner of Real Living Advantage Real Estate. “The brand’s commitment to customer service exemplifies the approach Real Living Advantage Real Estate will bring to Norfolk and Northeast Nebraska.”
“It was important for us to maintain our individuality but have the backing of a national franchise,” said Co-owner Jade Lafleur, noting that the brokerage wanted a fresh, national name but also wanted to keep its local, community-focused approach. “As a member of the Real Living network, we’re looking to grow and become No. 1 in our marketplace. Still, we don’t want just a lot of agents; we want the best agents who work to help people and can fit into our positive, friendly environment.”
Ron Thompson, an agent at Real Living Advantage Real Estate, is looking forward to boosting business with the philosophy and services provided by Real Living Real Estate. “Sales and sales success comes from implementing the resources that are available to us,” he said. “Real Living Real Estate is a progressive team of real estate professionals with great ideas and high goals.”
With their affiliation, Real Living Advantage Real Estate agents gain access to a comprehensive and integrated suite of resources aimed at helping real estate agents and their clients successfully navigate the home buying and selling process. “It’s amazing how much Real Living Real Estate offers in terms of tools and services,” said Lafleur. “From the ease of placing pictures in promotional materials to marketing open houses, the technology is professional and engaging.”
Robert McAdams Jr., president of Real Living Real Estate, welcomed Real Living Advantage Real Estate to the network. “Sandy, Jade and their team are well respected in their community and throughout Northeast Nebraska for their quality service and expertise,” he said. “We’re excited they’ve chosen to join us and we value their membership in our brand.”
Added Gino Blefari, CEO of HSF Affiliates, “We’re proud this innovative, new brokerage has joined Real Living Real Estate and we are eager to help them grow.”
About Real Living Advantage Real Estate
Real Living Advantage Real Estate is a full-service brokerage located in Norfolk, NE. Visit www.reallivingadvantagerealestate.com for details.
About Real Living Real Estate
Real Living Real Estate is a full-service real estate brokerage franchise company with a comprehensive and integrated suite of resources for franchisees and their sales professionals, as well as for consumers who work with them. In 2016, Real Living Real Estate was named “Real Estate Agency Brand of the Year” and “Most Loved” real estate brand in the 28th annual Harris Poll EquiTrend® study. Additionally, the Real Living brand and its innovative concepts were recognized by Entrepreneur magazine as well as Inman News, receiving several Inman Innovator Awards. Real Living was also named “the Most Promising New National Brand” by the Swanepoel TRENDS Report. Real Living Real Estate is a network brand of HSF Affiliates LLC, majority owned by HomeServices of America, Inc., a Berkshire Hathaway affiliate. For more information, visit www.RealLiving.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006295/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}