MCLEAN, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corporation (“Booz Allen”)(BAH), the parent company of management and technology consulting and engineering services firm Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., today announced the pricing of the previously announced sale of an aggregate of 16,660,000 shares of Class A common stock (“common stock”) on an underwritten basis by an affiliate of The Carlyle Group (“Carlyle”) to Barclays Capital Inc., as the underwriter in a registered offering of these shares (the “offering”), at a price to the public of $36.75 per share.
Upon completion of the offering, Carlyle will not beneficially own any shares of common stock of Booz Allen. The offering is expected to close and settle on December 6, 2016. Booz Allen is not selling any shares of common stock in the offering and will not receive any of the proceeds.
A shelf registration statement (including a prospectus) relating to the offering of the common stock has previously been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and has become effective. Before investing, interested parties should read the prospectus and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for information about Booz Allen and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, a copy of the prospectus may be obtained from the underwriter at: Barclays Capital Inc., c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, Telephone: 1 (888) 603-5847, Email: barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of any offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
About Booz Allen Hamilton
Booz Allen Hamilton (BAH) has been at the forefront of strategy and technology for more than 100 years. Today, the firm provides management and technology consulting and engineering services to leading Fortune 500 corporations, governments, and not-for-profits across the globe. Booz Allen partners with public and private sector clients to solve their most difficult challenges through a combination of consulting, analytics, mission operations, technology, systems delivery, cybersecurity, engineering, and innovation expertise.
With international headquarters in McLean, Virginia, the firm employs approximately 22,800 people globally, and had revenue of $5.41 billion for the 12 months ended March 31, 2016.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains, or may be deemed to contain, “forward-looking statements” (as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “guidance,” “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “forecasts,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “outlook,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “preliminary,” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements give Booz Allen’s current expectation of future events or its future performance and do not relate directly to historical or current events. A number of factors could cause Booz Allen’s future actions and related results to vary from any expectations or goals expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements included in this press release, possibly to a material degree. In particular, there can be no assurances that the offering by Carlyle will be consummated. Some of these factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in Booz Allen’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 19, 2016. All forward-looking statements included in this press release speak only as of the date made, and, except as required by law, Booz Allen undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
BAHPR-FI

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005773/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}