MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Revenue Optimization Companies (T-ROC) is proud to share that it placed No. 276 on the 2016 Deloitte Technology Fast 500™ list. With a 269% growth rate from 2012 to 2015, T-ROC is recognized alongside many of the world’s most admired brands and innovative Fortune 500 companies from across North America.
For more than 20 years, Deloitte has recognized the fastest growing public and private technology companies in North America. These tech companies are on the cutting edge and are transforming the way we do business. Awardees are selected for this honor based on percentage fiscal year revenue growth from 2012 to 2015. Overall, 2016 Technology Fast 500 companies achieved revenue growth ranging from 121 percent to 66,661 percent in the 2012 to 2015 time frame, with a median growth of 290 percent.
“Being recognized alongside the esteemed brands and companies on the Deloitte Technology Fast 500™ list is an incredible honor,” says Brett Beveridge, President and CEO of The Revenue Optimization Companies and The Retail Outsource. “We provide a unique set of tools and services to our expanding family of business clients around the world. We wouldn’t be able to grow as successfully as we have without our hardworking team, our brilliant clients, and an intense passion for the work that we do.”
To learn more about T-ROC, visit www.trocglobal.com or follow the company on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.
About The Revenue Optimization Companies
The Revenue Optimization Companies (T-ROC) is home to four sales solutions companies that enable clients to fulfill all of their sales performance needs. The Retail Outsource (TRO): an in and out of store sales performance management company; Mobile Insight (MI): real-time field reporting and business intelligence; The Consumer Insight (TCI): full-service customer experience analysis; and SYMBITS: managed IT services. Working in synergy, these four companies form a complete ecosystem for running, managing, and maximizing the productivity of institutional efforts. To learn more about T-ROC and its subsidiaries, visit www.trocglobal.com.
About Deloitte
Deloitte provides industry-leading audit, consulting, tax, and advisory services to many of the world’s most admired brands, including 80 percent of the Fortune 500. Its people work across more than 20 industry sectors to deliver measurable and lasting results that help reinforce public trust in its capital markets, inspire clients to make their most challenging business decisions with confidence, and help lead the way toward a stronger economy and a healthy society.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006240/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}