WALTHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Yottaa, Inc., the leading SaaS platform for accelerating eCommerce, today announced that its customers experienced tremendous online performance and revenue results over the Black Friday and Cyber Monday shopping weekend using the Yottaa platform.
For many retailers, the period between Black Friday and Cyber Monday represents a significant percentage of annual revenue. In keeping with past years, the 2016 holiday shopping weekend broke many online sales records. Here are some statistics from leading industry data:
Many of Yottaa’s customers reported record online revenue during the Black Friday/Cyber Monday holiday weekend. For example, eBags reported mobile sales increased 95% year over year. Using the Yottaa eCommerce Acceleration Platform, these companies were able to ensure not only fast web performance across all devices, but also 100% availability throughout the weekend resulting in optimal end user experiences and increased conversion rates. Comparing the four-day holiday period between 2015 and 2016, Yottaa customers experienced:
Purpose-built to solve the performance challenges eRetailers face today, Yottaa’s eCommerce Acceleration Platform enables online businesses to significantly improve website performance across all devices resulting in higher conversions. Combining proprietary InstantOn™ technology with application sequencing and extensive 3rd party content management capabilities, Yottaa enables eCommerce sites to significantly accelerate website loading and improve end user experience resulting in dramatic online revenue increases. During the holiday shopping weekend the Yottaa platform hit multiple milestones in the service of the company’s customers. These milestones included:
“One of Yottaa’s key company mantras is ‘customer first’ and everyone at the company strives to make our customers as successful as possible,” said Rich Stendardo, CEO of Yottaa. “Throughout the year our Services team works hand-in-hand with our customers to prepare for high traffic times, such as the Black Friday/Cyber Monday holiday shopping weekend. So, it is very satisfying for everyone at Yottaa to know that our customers experienced outstanding revenue and performance during the weekend and that the Yottaa platform played a key role in that success.”
About YottaaYottaa is the leading SaaS platform for accelerating eCommerce. Through its patented ContextIntelligence™ architecture, online businesses can accelerate, manage, and secure end user experiences on all devices in real-time with zero code change. Many Internet Retailer 500 companies have adopted Yottaa's platform to realize billions in incremental revenue through dramatic improvements across key performance and business metrics. To learn more about how Yottaa can accelerate your eCommerce site, please visit www.yottaa.com or follow @yottaa on Twitter.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005974/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}