DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Fuel Cell Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global fuel cell market to grow at a CAGR of 22.76% during the period 2016-2020.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global fuel cell market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report enlists certain key estimates that we have considered for arriving at the market trends and certain exclusions that helped to demarcate the market contours. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
Fuel cells produce electricity by utilizing the power generated from electrochemical reactions. They use external sources of chemical energy such as hydrogen and oxygen to produce energy. Electrochemical reactions in the fuel cells oxidize hydrogen, which reacts with oxygen to form water and release electrons. The electrons then flow through the external circuit producing an electric current. All fuel cells are based on a standard design, wherein two electrodes are separated by an electrolyte.
The electrolyte carries electrically charged particles. A catalyst is used to speed up or accelerate the electrochemical reaction within the fuel cells. Fuel cells can be used in small devices that are powered by a few watts of electricity and also in large power plants that produce megawatts (MW) of electrical energy. Fuel cells are categorized by the nature of the electrolyte used in them.
Key questions answered in this report
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by application
Part 07: Market segmentation by type
Part 08: Market segmentation by geography
Part 09: Key leading countries
Part 10: Market drivers
Part 11: Impact of drivers
Part 12: Market challenges
Part 13: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 14: Market trends
Part 15: Vendor landscape
Part 16: Key vendor analysis
Part 17: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/7qzwns/global_fuel_cell

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005661/en/