DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Refrigerated Display Cases Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The report forecasts the global refrigerated display cases market to grow at a CAGR of 5.11% during the period 2016-2020.
The global commercial refrigeration market offers various types of commercial refrigerators such as refrigerated storage cabinets or display cases, ice-making machinery, and walk-in coolers. RDCs are used in supermarkets to provide a temporary storage for perishable food items prior to the sales. In addition to cold storage, RDCs enhance the sales of food products by visually attracting the customers. The design characteristics, general shape, and layout of display cases are based on marketing specifications and constraints.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global refrigerated display cases market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated from the worldwide retail sales of the two types of RDC in the market which include plug-in RDCs and remote RDCs.
The use of LED lighting in RDCs is gaining momentum as fluorescent lighting used in RDCs consumes more electricity and incurs higher operating costs. A backdrop of fluorescent light consumes extra energy but diffuses lights and creates glare and shadows. These lights also increase the overall maintenance costs. In contrast, LED lights reduce the load on RDCs.
Key vendors:
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by product
Part 07: Market segmentation by geography
Part 08: Market drivers
Part 09: Impact of drivers
Part 10: Market challenges
Part 11: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 12: Market trends
Part 13: Vendor landscape
Part 14: Key vendor analysis
Part 15: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/mdvbnr/global.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005731/en/