DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Connected Mining Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The report forecasts the global connected mining market to grow at a CAGR of 17.46% during the period 2016-2020.
Connected mining refers to the use of technology to achieve better productivity and safety, as well as reduce operational costs for a mine site. Mining companies focus on improving the productivity by offering innovative solutions. Connected mining includes remote-controlled robotic machinery for mineral extraction, which is referred to as tele-robotic mining and reduces the risk for miners.
This report has been prepared based on an in-depth market analysis with inputs from industry experts. The report covers the market landscape and its growth prospects over the coming years. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
According to the report, one of the primary drivers in the market is increased global mining operations. Minerals and metals play a crucial role in daily operational activities involving food and water supply, sewage treatment, energy, infrastructure, transportation, construction, and manufacturing industries. Depleting mineral deposits in Europe and the US have led to a rise in the exploration and mining activities in Latin America, Africa, and parts of Asia. Technological advances facilitate the exploration of the previously inaccessible mining deposits. The development of large ocean-going vessels, which were initially constructed to transport crude oil, is also facilitating the global trade of bulk mineral commodities, such as iron ore and bauxite.
Key vendors:
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by type
Part 07: Market segmentation by category
Part 08: Global connected mining component market by category
Part 09: Geographical segmentation
Part 10: Market drivers
Part 11: Impact of drivers
Part 12: Market challenges
Part 13: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 14: Market trends
Part 15: Vendor landscape
Part 16: Key vendor analysis
Part 17: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/p62mbq/global_connected

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005655/en/