RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Qlik®, a leader in visual analytics, today announced that Lupin Limited (Lupin), a transnational pharmaceutical company based in Mumbai, is using Qlik to unlock data insights across their organization.
With over 16,000 employees globally, Lupin is the third-largest pharmaceutical manufacturer by revenue in India and the fifth-largest generic pharmaceutical company in the US by prescription-led market share. Lupin is using Qlik to analyze data across its supply chain, finance, and research and development departments in order to drive rapid and fact-based decisions for the business. Utilizing the Qlik analytics platform, Lupin is able to integrate and analyze huge volumes of data from multiple sources – including SAP ERP, SAP Business Warehouse, Microsoft Excel, and Sales Force Automation, as well as a third-party information management system.
“Information is the lifeblood of any organization and particularly in the fast moving sector of pharmaceuticals,” said Mr. Rajendra Chunodkar, Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain & Technology, Lupin. “Increasing supply chain efficiency begins with enhancing basic metrics and reporting, as these provide the essential data for performance improvement initiatives and provide visibility of supply chain activities. Our supply chain metrics not only mirrors the performance of the supply chain function at Lupin, but also helps in evaluating the performance of other functions like manufacturing, procurement, customer servicing.
“Qlik helps us identify inefficiencies whether by market, a specific product range, a production facility or vendor delays. These help us in taking focused corrective action. With Qlik’s 'control metrics,' we can monitor real-time critical events and KPIs. The platform empowers our business to make better decisions to increase supply chain responsiveness, optimize cost, and enhance customer service.”
Through its new Qlik-powered Lupin Enhanced Analytical Portal (LEAP), which took less than four months to deploy with the help of Qlik partner Icon Resources & Technologies (IRT), the organization has conquered the challenge and complexity of handling large amounts of data while keeping the total cost-of-ownership low. The combination of speed, accuracy, and easy-to-assimilate Qlik visual dashboards offer a 360-degree view, which has accelerated decision-making and improved decision-making confidence throughout the organization. The success of the project has prompted plans for Lupin to roll out Qlik across the organization globally and centralize the planning, management, and maintenance of its extensive IT infrastructure.
“Organizations want access to technologies that allow them to analyze data easily to derive trends and correlations so they are able to see the whole story,” said Souma Das, Managing Director, Qlik India. “Through our unique associative search capability, Qlik brings varied data sources together quickly so no data is left behind. Decision-makers at companies such as Lupin can be confident in the data they have access to, and enjoy the ability to derive insights freely in a governed manner.’’
About QlikQlik® is the leading visual analytics platform and the pioneer of user-driven business intelligence. Its portfolio of cloud-based and on-premise solutions meets customers’ growing needs from reporting and self-service visual analysis to guided, embedded and custom analytics, regardless of where data is located. Customers using Qlik Sense®, QlikView® and Qlik® Cloud, gain meaning out of information from multiple sources, exploring the hidden relationships within data that lead to insights that ignite good ideas. Headquartered in Radnor, Pennsylvania, Qlik does business in more than 100 countries with over 40,000 customers globally.
© 2016 QlikTech International AB. All rights reserved. Qlik®, Qlik Sense®, QlikView®, QlikTech®, Qlik® Cloud, Qlik® DataMarket, Qlik® Analytics Platform and the QlikTech logos are trademarks of QlikTech International AB which have been registered in multiple countries. Other marks and logos mentioned herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005039/en/