NORWELL, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
OpTerra Energy Services (OpTerra), a national energy services company that works with commercial, industrial and institutional clients as well as education, municipalities and other public sector entities to develop comprehensive sustainability programs, today announced its new in-house financing solution, OpTerraADVANTAGE.
Designed to serve a variety of businesses and organizations in the commercial, industrial, and institutional space, OpTerraADVANTAGE enables customers to navigate around common financial hurdles that they may face during the implementation of energy efficiency initiatives, from strict ROI requirements and budget constraints to CapEx limitations. The program helps businesses increase cash flow, save money, and enhance operational performance by directly utilizing energy savings to fund their sustainability projects and cover up-front costs.
The new product will provide financing to commercial, industrial, and institutional customers of any size. OpTerraADVANTAGE customers will benefit from lower monthly payments, increased savings, and reduced risk by accessing the full value of all available utility incentives to offset their total project cost. By helping organizations manage cash flow connected to the design, build, and operation of their efficiency projects, OpTerraADVANTAGE will allow facility owners and managers to exceed OpEx reduction goals while improving their bottom line and preserving vital financial resources. Financing terms extend up to seven years and will cover up to 100% of total project cost.
“The new OpTerraADVANTAGE finance offering will provide significant long-term benefits for organizations across the country that are seeking turnkey energy conservation solutions,” said Sean Fuller, Vice President of Sales & Marketing at OpTerra’s C&I Division. “By using this program to finance projects that are directly tied to energy savings through facility optimization and efficiency, our clients will achieve a faster path to growth and profitability while promoting sustainability.”
About OpTerra Energy Services
OpTerra Energy Services is a national energy company that works with education, local government, commercial, industrial, and institutional organizations to implement efficiency and sustainable energy solutions that save money, enhance safety, improve assets, and protect the environment. As a subsidiary of ENGIE S.A., the number one energy efficiency services provider in the world, OpTerra Energy Services provides a unique and extensive set of energy and sustainability management services to thousands of customers across the U.S. The company has provided more than $2 billion in energy savings for its customers over the past 40 years. To learn more, please visit www.opterraenergy.com or www.opterraadvantage.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005957/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}