NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
BioPharm Insight (BPI), the most comprehensive life science market intelligence and analytics solution, today announced the release of its Immuno-Oncology Report, addressing toxicity and cost concerns for checkpoint inhibitors and CAR-Ts as well as the combination potential of vaccines.
Get the Report: http://www.biopharminsight.com/immuno-oncology-report-december-2016
The two main approved checkpoint inhibitors, Merck’s (MRK) Keytruda and Bristol-Myers Squibb’s (BMY) Opdivo, continue to take center stage with trials showing varying levels of efficacy as they attempt to expand approvals into additional cancer indications. Opdivo is forecast to have global sales of more than $12 billion by 2022, surpassing projected sales of fellow PD-1 inhibitor Keytruda, which is predicted to have global sales of $7.7 billion during the same year.
In the CAR-T space, durable remissions seen in certain hematological cancers, especially in relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), may translate to expansions into other liquid cancers lacking response to standard therapies. Yet the use of CAR-T cells is also currently limited by potentially severe toxicities, as exemplified by recent news headlines on Juno Therapeutics’ (JUNO) Phase II JCAR015 ROCKET trial, which was put on clinical hold following the death of two adult ALL patients.
Various therapeutic vaccines generating specific immune responses are under investigation in several tumor types, with some of them being closely looked at for their combination potential with checkpoint inhibitors. Argos Therapeutics’ (ARGS) is developing AGS-003, an autologous dendritic cell–based immunotherapy in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). In cervical cancer, experts say Advaxis’ (ADXS) Phase III study with axalimogene filolisbac (AXAL) could best exploit the vaccine’s potential by studying it in the adjuvant setting.
“What we are seeing today in the Immuno-oncology space could well be the tip of the iceberg in terms of innovative therapies, but the field also has to contend with clear challenges in development and on the market,” said Querida Anderson, editor in chief at BioPharm Insight. “Going beyond anti-CTLA4/PD1/PDL1 mAbs and developing sound combination possibilities are among key ongoing endeavors.”
In partnership with The Conference Forum, Anderson will be moderating BPI’s panel discussion, “Immuno-Oncology: Filtering the Hype for the Next Wave of Targets,” taking place in San Francisco on January 9th. The discussion will build on topics discussed in the featured Immuno-Oncology Report, including next-generation Immuno-oncology therapeutics, clinical trial design considerations, market traction and changing reimbursement dynamics.
Panelists include:
Learn more about the Immuno-oncology panel: http://www.biopharminsight.com/events/biopharm-insight-exclusive-event
Learn more about the Immuno-oncology field with BioPharm Insight’s full report: http://www.biopharminsight.com/immuno-oncology-report-december-2016
Tweet This: .@BioPharmInsight releases #ImmunoOncology report on recent developments & upcoming catalysts: bit.ly/2ghFMkx
About BioPharm Insight
BioPharm Insight is the most comprehensive life science market intelligence and analytics solution, featuring a team of investigative journalists writing exclusive news and thousands of healthcare data points, aggregated into one centralized source. In addition to the proprietary articles, BioPharm Insight is currently tracking 250,000 management and R&D contacts, 7,500 biopharma companies with full pipeline data, 120,000 investigational and approved drug profiles, 28,000 M&A and licensing deals, 10,000 extended sales forecasts and epidemiology profiles for hundreds of indications. Meet with BioPharm Insight in person during the 35th Annual J.P. Morgan Conference in January 2017. Learn more at www.biopharminsight.com and follow us: @BioPharmInsight.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005313/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}