PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Bitmovin, the provider of streaming video infrastructure technologies, today released a new video infrastructure API that bundles Bitmovin’s successful video encoding and video player services with a new video performance analytics product as well as integrations into various storage and content delivery network (CDN) providers. The result is an end-to-end video infrastructure API that greatly simplifies the development and delivery of web-based video, including live, VOD, 360, and virtual reality.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005644/en/ 
The term “video infrastructure” refers to all of the components required to deliver adaptive streaming video in an online environment. The chain begins with a video file, which is encoded into adaptive streaming format (usually MPEG-DASH and/or HLS) and then transferred to some form of online storage (AWS S3, FTP, Aspera, etc.). From there the files are fed out through a content delivery network, or CDN (Akamai, Level3, CloudFront, etc.), which quickly delivers the video to a user, who watches it through an adaptive player such as an HTML5 Player. The last piece of the puzzle is the analytics system which tracks user behaviour. On top of this infrastructure is another layer of technologies that are often required. This can include encryption (Digital Rights Management), advertising integrations, VR or 360° video controls, subtitles and closed captions, and many more possibilities.
The use of video has grown so quickly that most video infrastructures are built by patching together systems from a variety of different providers. This results in long and expensive development cycles, complex and unscalable systems, and online video offerings that fall short of the quality found on Netflix, YouTube or Twitch.
The new Bitmovin API, which was a direct result of customer feedback, solves these challenges by combining every component in the adaptive streaming video encoding and playback workflow -- encoding, playback, analytics, storage and content delivery -- into one single management interface without locking users into a one-size-fits-all solution. Content providers, broadcasters, integrators and developers can combine any part of the new Bitmovin API, or utilize the whole Bitmovin offering, with their existing video infrastructure.
“We’ve listened to the feedback of our customers and are now ready to deliver the first comprehensive video infrastructure that integrates all aspects of the adaptive streaming workflow into one easy to use API layer,” said Stefan Lederer, CEO of Bitmovin. “As Twilio is to communication, and Stripe is to payments, Bitmovin is the API for video, which enables Netflix- or Twitch-like video experience on the Web. We can’t wait for our customers to experience it.”
Major online video providers such as Ooyala, RTL and Technicolor already use this API in their production environments.
For more information visit www.bitmovin.com.
About Bitmovin
Bitmovin was founded in 2013 by the co-creators of the MPEG-DASH video streaming standard, used by industry leaders like Netflix and YouTube and currently accounts for 50% of US peak internet traffic. The company is laying the groundwork for a cross-platform future dominated by video content. Bitmovin, Inc. is based in Palo Alto, CA, and Klagenfurt, Austria and is privately owned. Investors include Atomico, YCombinator (YC S15), Dawn Capital, SpeedInvest, Constantia New Business and a number of angel investors, including the former VP Engineering of Netflix, the former CTO of Cisco and the founder of Unity. www.bitmovin.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005644/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005644/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}