HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
WildHorse Resource Development Corporation (the “Company”) announced today that it has launched its initial public offering of 27,500,000 shares of common stock pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 filed previously with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company intends to grant the underwriters of the offering a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 4,125,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The shares are expected to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “WRD.”
Barclays, BofA Merrill Lynch, BMO Capital Markets, Citigroup and Wells Fargo Securities are acting as book-running managers for the offering. The offering of these securities will be made only by means of a written prospectus. A copy of the preliminary prospectus for the offering may be obtained, when available, from:
About WildHorse Resource Development
WildHorse Resource Development Corporation is an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil, natural gas and NGL properties primarily in the Eagle Ford Shale in East Texas and the Over-Pressured Cotton Valley in North Louisiana.
Important Information
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet been declared effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. The registration statement may be obtained free of charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov under the registrant’s name, “WildHorse Resource Development Corporation.” This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This release includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of federal securities laws. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. All statements, other than historical facts included in this release, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release. Although the Company believes that the plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there is no assurance that these plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is expressed, implied or forecast in such statements.
The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict all such factors. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in the preliminary prospectus filed with the SEC in connection with this offering. The risk factors and other factors noted in the preliminary prospectus could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005620/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}