KANSAS CITY, Mo. & NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Bats Global Markets, Inc. (BATS), the #1 U.S. market for exchange-traded fund (ETF) trading, today welcomed PowerShares as a new issuer to the Bats ETF Marketplace with the launch of two factor-based funds.
The PowerShares S&P International Developed High Dividend Low Volatility Portfolio (IDHD) seeks investment results that generally correspond to the price and yield of the S&P EPAC Ex-Korea Low Volatility High Dividend Index. The PowerShares S&P SmallCap High Dividend Low Volatility Portfolio (XSHD) seeks investment results that generally correspond to the price and yield of the S&P SmallCap 600 Low Volatility High Dividend Index. Additional information is available here.
Laura Morrison, Senior Vice President, Global Head of Exchange-Traded Products at Bats, said, “PowerShares is one of the leading global providers of exchange-traded products and we are proud to welcome them as a new issuer. The innovation that PowerShares brings to capital markets makes them a wonderful addition to the thriving Bats ETF Marketplace.”
“We’re excited to bring two new factor ETFs to market with Bats. As the proliferation of ETFs is increasing, so is the value of creating unique strategies and supporting them with robust market services,” said Dan Draper, Global Head of PowerShares by Invesco.
Bats executed 23.7% of U.S. ETF trading in October and is the #1 U.S. market for ETF trading. In addition, the company has won 25% of all new U.S. ETF listings this year, through October, vs 9% for all of 2015.
As of today, there are 22 issuers with a combined 112 ETFs listed in the U.S. on the Bats ETF Marketplace.
Additional information regarding listing and trading on the Bats ETF Marketplace is available on ETFMarketplace.com. ETF issuers interested in joining the many firms listing on Bats may email listings@bats.com.
About Bats Global Markets
Bats Global Markets, Inc. (BATS) is a leading global operator of exchanges and services for financial markets, dedicated to Making Markets Better. Bats is the second-largest stock exchange operator in the U.S., operates the largest stock exchange and trade reporting facility in Europe, and the #1 market globally for ETF trading. We also operate growing ETF listings venues in the U.S. and Europe, two U.S. options exchanges and Bats Hotspot, our global foreign exchange market. Also, ETF.com, a leading provider of ETF news, data and analysis, is a wholly-owned subsidiary. The company is headquartered in Kansas City with offices in New York, London, Chicago, San Francisco, Singapore and Quito. Visit bats.com and @BatsGlobal for more information.
About PowerShares by Invesco
PowerShares by Invesco is leading the Intelligent ETF Revolution® through its family of more than 140 domestic and international PowerShares exchange-traded funds (ETFs). PowerShares ETFs seek to outperform traditional benchmark indexes while providing advisors and investors access to an innovative array of focused investment opportunities. PowerShares has US franchise assets exceeding $105 billion as of September 30, 2016. For more information, please visit us at powershares.com or follow us on Twitter @PowerShares.
Disclaimer
Bats and its affiliates do not recommend or make any representation as to possible benefits from any securities or investments, or third-party products or services. Investors should undertake their own due diligence regarding their securities and investment practices. You cannot invest directly in an index. This press release speaks only as of this date. Bats disclaims any duty to update the information herein.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005928/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}