NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the following Isle of Wight County, VA ratings:
--Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'AA';
--$138.2 million general obligation (GO) bonds at 'AA'.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The bonds are general obligations of the county, payable by its full faith and credit and unlimited taxing power.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The 'AA' IDR reflects an unlimited legal ability to raise revenues, solid expenditure flexibility and low debt levels, somewhat tempered by a concentrated tax base. Management's willingness to raise tax rates has enabled the county to return to positive operations after deficits in the past few years. Healthy reserves, even after recent use of fund balance, position the county to exhibit financial resilience throughout the economic cycle.
Economic Resource Base
Isle of Wight County is located in the Hampton Roads region of southeastern Virginia; consequently the local employment base, with its concentration in manufacturing, benefits from the broad regional economy. The population, estimated at 36,314 in 2015, will likely show continued modest growth in the intermediate term. The tax base has nearly recovered to its high in the late 2000s.
Revenue Framework: 'aa' factor assessment
Fitch expects revenue growth will hover around national economic performance and exceed inflation. The county has unlimited legal property taxing authority. A concentrated tax base heightens potential volatility, somewhat weakening the assessment of this key rating factor.
Expenditure Framework: 'aa' factor assessment
The natural pace of spending growth is likely to equal or slightly surpass revenue growth. Moderate carrying costs and ample control over labor wages and benefits underlie solid expenditure flexibility.
Long-Term Liability Burden: 'aa' factor assessment
Modest intermediate-term bonding requirements and participation in a well-funded multiple-employer pension system underscore the county's moderate long-term liability burden. The inclusion of debt issued by an enterprise system reliant upon general fund support slows the county's overall amortization rate.
Operating Performance: 'aaa' factor assessment
Fitch expects that management's demonstrated willingness to raise revenues coupled with solid expenditure flexibility would enable the county to maintain adequate financial flexibility throughout an economic cycle. During a recent period of structural imbalance, which the county has now addressed, reserves remained healthy.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
FUNDAMENTAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PROFILES: The IDR is sensitive to shifts in the county's strong operating performance as well as potential volatility within the somewhat concentrated economic base.
CREDIT PROFILE
The county's tax base reflects its manufacturing roots. Fitch anticipates that the growth of the nearby Port of Virginia, with its commercial and military activities, will contribute to increased economic breadth, most notably by encouraging the warehouse and distribution sector. Both labor and wealth indices are generally favorable to those of the nation and hover around state averages.
Revenue Framework
Property taxes are the dominant revenue stream, equal to nearly three-quarters of general fund revenues. Intergovernmental revenues comprise slightly over one-tenth of the revenue base, followed by sales taxes at around 5%. Manufacturing concerns are prevalent among the 10 largest taxpayers, which in total comprise approximately one-fifth of the tax base. International Paper Company, the largest taxpayer, represents about 10% of the tax base, largely due to high personal property valuations.
Tax base performance that has been somewhat sluggish over most of the past decade suggests that future revenue growth will likely fall below national economic performance.
There is no legal limitation on the county's ability to increase its millage or tax levy.
Expenditure Framework
Education is the county's primary expenditure, representing nearly one-half of general fund spending, followed by public safely, which is just shy of one-fifth on spending. Virginia public schools are largely funded by a mix of state and local contributions. The county board determines the amount of the local contributions, based on the state-determined performance standards for the school system.
As is common with many local governments, the natural pace of spending growth should align with or modestly exceed expected revenue growth as a result of moderate increases in the costs of services and a growing population.
Moderate carrying costs and notable maneuverability in addressing workforce compensation and headcount underlies the county's solid expenditure flexibility. Fixed carrying costs associated with debt service, actuarially determined pension payments and other post-employment benefits (OPEB) account for a moderate 12% of government payments and should remain stable.
The general fund provides a necessary subsidy to the public utilities fund, in varying amounts from almost $6 million in fiscal 2015, equivalent to more than half of the fund's expenditures, to less than $1.6 million in fiscal 2016, when higher connection fees and reduced purchases mitigated the need for general fund support. Fitch will continue to monitor for any related pressures on the general fund.
The county has considerable control over workforce spending, due to the absence of collective bargaining and the prohibition against strikes. A state mandate for a minimum funding level for education in theory limits the county's ability to reduce expenditures; however, the county currently funds education above the state's required local expenditure.
The county has proposed a five-year ramp up to allocating 3% of the general fund budget to pay-as-you-go capital funding, which eventually could serve as an additional source of expenditure relief, if required.
Long-Term Liability Burden
Long-term liabilities, inclusive of the school board's proportionate share of its multiple employer pension plan, place a moderate burden on the county, representing about 11.5% of 2015 personal income. Direct debt, including issuance on behalf of the public utilities funds, which require general fund support, accounts for the majority of the burden. The amortization rate of the enterprise system issuances, which has a slower pay-out than that of tax-supported debt, contributes to the county's below-average amortization rate of slightly over 40% of principal retirement within 10 years. The $51.5 million fiscal 2017 - fiscal 2021 capital improvement plan includes limited debt issuance.
County employees and non-professional employees of the school board participate in the statewide Virginia Retirement System (VRS), an agent-multiple employer defined benefit pension plan. These portions of the plan have a joint asset to liability ratio of over 92%, assuming a 7% return on investment assumption. The joint net pension liability is minimal. The school board is a component unit of the county and participates in the VRS Teacher Retirement Plan, which is a cost-sharing multiple-employer plan. It reports a net pension liability for teachers at approximately $48 million, or nearly 3% of personal income. For all pension plan components, the contractually required payments, which equal an actuarially determined contribution, are paid in full.
A limited OPEB program results in a negligible liability as a percentage of personal income.
Operating Performance
A demonstrated willingness to raise revenues, a solid degree of expenditure flexibility, and the commitment to restore structural balance provide the county with the means to address a hypothetical revenue decline while maintaining solid reserves. Fitch anticipates that county reserves will continue to exceed its reserve policy, which equals an unassigned general fund balance at 10% of budgeted governmental funds, excluding certain adjustments.
The county returned to surplus operations in fiscal 2016 after three consecutive years of negative performance, although reserve levels remained solid throughout the period. A combination of revenue raising measures (both one-time and recurring) and spending reductions had been insufficient to stem the operating deficits of fiscal years 2013 and 2014. A three-year plan that the county developed in fiscal 2015 to regain balanced operations combined a property tax hike, the utilization of one-time revenues, and expenditure reductions.
Fiscal 2016 concluded with a $3.8 million surplus, equal to 5.8% of spending, comparing favorably to an adopted budget that appropriated nearly $2.2 million of fund balance. The unrestricted fund balance equaled a healthy 26.7% of spending. The $71 million fiscal 2017 budget represented less than a 1% increase from the prior year and was balanced without the use of reserves.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
In addition to the sources of information identified in the applicable criteria specified below, this action was informed by information from Lumesis and InvestorTools.
Applicable Criteria
U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015700
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015700
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006464/en/