TAIPEI, Taiwan--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Billion Electric, the leading provider of Smart City and IoT (Internet of Things) solutions, showcased its innovative IoT Gateway during the “Promote IoT Ecosystem and Create Various Business Opportunities Seminar” hosted by the Institute for Information Industry (III), Ministry of Economic Affairs of Taiwan. Billion also announced to officially enter the PV Energy Industry starting from the beginning of 2017.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005160/en/ 
During the seminar, Billion introduced the new Smart Universal Gateway – SG6300NXL, enabling a flexible, easy-to-integrate platform via the well-defined API for system integrators to develop their desired backend application. Supporting wired (RS485/PLC/Ethernet) and wireless (ZigBee/Wi-Fi/3G/4G) communication protocols, SG6300NXL services as an adaptive gateway to significantly shorten the SI development timeline through the integration of front end sensory data and the back-end web-based management system.
As the global networking equipment supplier, Billion shared its in-depth insights of IoT communication development in two vertical markets: Smart Energy Management (SEMS) and Smart Streetlight Control Solutions (LCMS), which have been widely implemented at a diversity of facilities across the globe, including residential apartments, households, factories, buildings, chain stores, solar power plants, streetlight. These two solutions are highly scalable for the integration with existing any BMS and CMS systems to empower the correct architecture.
"Upstream and downstream suppliers should leverage on each other’s technical know-how to form value-added IoT solutions for different vertical markets. From backend application development to user interface design to hardware integration, the comprehensive IoT ecosystem can provide sustainable, mutual benefits for a broad range of software and hardware developers and service providers," said Jason Liao, the Product Marketing Manager of Billion Electric Co.
Following the expansion of its Energy and Light Control Management Systems presence in Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia and other ASEAN regions, Billion aims to broaden its product diversity to penetrate into PV Power Plants and PV Energy Monitoring System developments with an expected revenue increase of 10% brought by the new business venture.
About Billion
Billion Electric Co. (TAIEX: 3027, www.billion.com) is a leading global provider of ICT solutions. We enhance life and communication efficiency through a better-connected world. Billion is committed to acting as responsible corporate citizens, innovative enablers for the information society, and collaborative contributors to the industry through creating maximum value for worldwide telecom operators.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005160/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005160/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}