SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Zenreach, the leader in WiFi-powered smart marketing and consumer engagement, today launches its Partner Program, letting companies offer Zenreach’s WiFi Marketing solution to their national and local brick & mortar customers. The Partner Program opens a significant revenue opportunity for partners, and is optimized for companies who deliver technology or marketing services to customers in the food and beverage, retail, grocery, hospitality, automotive, sports, and entertainment industries.
“Technology has reached a marketing holy grail: the ability to know what actually brings people back to their place of business,” said Jack Abraham, CEO of Zenreach. “With most companies recognizing the advantage of providing WiFi, and most people carrying phones everywhere they go, Zenreach re-establishes a direct connection between businesses and the people they serve, to everyone’s benefit - now our partners can deliver this solution to their customers as well.”
Zenreach, which recently announced a $30M Series B funding, helps businesses create sustained, personalized contact with their customers. Opting-in to free WiFi with an email address or social login connects customers to the businesses they visit. For the business, that results in at least five times more efficient contact collection and helps build detailed customer lists that are easily segmented. Smart Messages, an automated, engaging and personalized business building tool woven into the Zenreach SaaS platform, can then be automatically sent based on each customer’s individual visit history.
Zenreach partners range from MSPs, VARs, ISVs, POS solution providers and WiFi OEMs to national media companies, local publishers, IYPs, digital marketing agencies, web development shops and more. Organized into three categories including Technology Services, Marketing Services and Hardware/Software Partners, approved partners within each segment qualify for Gold, Silver or Referral levels. Benefits of joining the partner program include access to the Zenreach Partner Portal, sales and marketing tools, account management, and aggressive margins with our wholesale pricing model to name a few.
“Our customers are looking for new ways to transform the Connected Experience for their customers, and Aerohive is always looking for new partners like Zenreach to help us deliver this,” says David Greene, CMO of Aerohive. “Zenreach complements our WiFi and routing solutions by providing customers a powerful turnkey offering for WiFi-powered customer engagement and retention. We’re excited about working with Zenreach to unlock the potential of mobility in hospitality, retail and entertainment venues.”
For more information on Zenreach Partner Program and to become a partner, visit www.zenreach.com/partners or contact partners@zenreach.com.
About Zenreach
Zenreach is a WiFi based marketing automation and consumer engagement platform headquartered in San Francisco, CA. Zenreach helps offline businesses gain a better understanding of who their customers are, enable personalized marketing engagement, and provide a tangible ROI through their custom WiFi technology measured by their proprietary Walk-Through Rate™.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005410/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}