BLOOMINGTON, Minn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
ReSound announced today the U.S. launch of ReSound Up Smart™, the only pediatric Smart Hearing aid with Made for iPhone capabilities, providing new ways to support speech and language development, educational skills, and social interaction.
The award-winning ReSound Smart Hearing portfolio provides solutions for children, teenagers and adults, including those with mild-to-moderate or severe-to-profound hearing loss. Since 2007, ReSound has also applied directionality in a unique way that opens the world of sound for users and avoids "tunnel hearing”. ReSound Up Smart hearing aids include important child safety features such as battery-door lock and an LED light that allows parents to check the status of the hearing aid and its battery at a glance.
ReSound Up Smart also allows wearers to stream sound directly to an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch. When used in combination with the ReSound Micro Mic and Multi Mic, and a choice of FM solutions, it provides even more ways to confidently learn, participate and discover.
The ReSound SmartTM app delivers the power of direct control over hearing aid settings. ReSound’s industry-leading technologies put customization at the users’ fingertips, allowing wearers to make real-time adjustments based on personal preference and listening environment.
The ReSound Smart app moreover gives parents discreet control over their children’s hearing aids. They can start or stop streamers, such as the ReSound Micro Mic, ReSound Multi Mic or ReSound TV Streamer 2, change programs, and save and geo-tag preferred settings for school and home. The ReSound Smart app is available free of charge in the Apple App Store, and for several Android devices in the Google Play Store.
Older schoolchildren and teenagers can dig deeper into some of the more advanced, intuitive functions to personalize their hearing experience. And with geo-tagging, they can map out how they want their life to sound at school, their favorite hangout, the sports arena, or at home.
Available in a range of attractive colors, every ReSound Up Smart Hearing aid component is coated with iSolate nanotech inside and out to repel water, dust, and corrosive substances such as earwax and sweat.
ReSound’s revolutionary portfolio of Smart Hearing aid technology is available through a global network of hearing care professionals. Consumers can find more information by visiting www.resound.com.
About GN Hearing
GN Hearing is a leading international developer and manufacturer of innovative hearing healthcare solutions committed to let people hear more, do more and be more than they ever thought possible. The company has reinvented the hearing system with its revolutionary ReSound Smart Hearing aids that give impressive sound and personal freedom to hearing aid users through wireless smartphone and tablet connectivity. ReSound is part of GN Group comprising a unique portfolio of medical, professional and consumer sound solutions that make life sound better through its research, insights, and expertise in sound.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005524/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}