REDWOOD CITY, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Avast Software, the leader in digital security products for consumers and businesses, today announced that the company has been named a 2016 ChannelPro SMB All-Star. The ChannelPro SMB All-Stars is the only awards program of its kind in the channel and companies are selected by the ChannelPro-SMB editorial team and industry experts. Avast joins an elite group of innovative software, hardware and service providers in the SMB IT channel space whose products, programs and initiatives have made a significant impact on the SMB channel over the last year.
Avast’s recent acquisition of AVG has brought together two of the world’s leading security companies— their technologies, industry expertise and the most advanced threat detection networks — to uniquely address the complex, growing security challenges of SMBs and channel partners. The ChannelPro-SMB recognition follows strategic channel initiatives put in place by AVG that put a new, partner-focused operating model in place. The company’s global distribution strategy, which engages geo-specific, specialized distributors, has also opened access to thousands of new SMB resellers and accelerated channel expansion. The Partner Certification Program, launched by AVG earlier this year and continuing under Avast, is providing partners the essential technology, tools and knowledge to secure SMBs and enable sales and support.
“Online threats continue to grow in volume and complexity, making it imperative for businesses to be educated about security risks and thoroughly protected at all times,” says Kevin Chapman, SVP and general manager of Avast’s SMB Business. “Avast is committed to delivering the most effective business security solutions available, and this would not be possible without the support of our global channel partners. We will continue to build on this recent momentum as we strategically integrate AVG and Avast technologies and streamline processes to better meet the evolving needs of our SMB partners and clients.”
About Avast
Avast Software (www.avast.com), the global leader in digital security products for consumers and businesses, protects over 400 million people online. Avast offers products under the Avast and AVG brands that address threats from the internet with one of the most advanced threat detection network in the world. Avast digital security products for Mobile, PC or Mac are top-ranked and certified by VB100, AV-Comparatives, AV-Test, OPSWAT, ICSA Labs, West Coast Labs and others.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005173/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}