NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
KKR, a leading global investment firm, proudly announced today that it received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBT workplace equality, administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. KKR joins the ranks of 517 major U.S. businesses which also earned top marks this year, including KKR portfolio companies First Data and Toys “R” Us, as well as former portfolio companies Nielsen and Walgreens.
In 2014, KKR created an Inclusion and Diversity Council (IDC) with 8 of the Firm’s senior most people with a global point-of-view. The IDC works with an advisory group of KKR executives at different levels globally to create initiatives designed to support its hard-working employees. Over the last year, the IDC has taken steps to further provide for LGBT employees including implementing gender reassignment treatment coverage under the KKR healthcare plan and partnering with and learning from an employee network of LGBT Executives and Allies.
Mike Michelson, KKR Member and Head of the Firm’s IDC, said: ”We are extremely proud to receive this recognition, especially on behalf of our LGBT employees. We will continue to identify and implement other ‘best-in-class’ practices to drive greater diversity and inclusion across our Firm and better support our most important asset: the people who walk through our doors every day.”
The 2017 CEI rated 1,043 businesses in the report, which evaluates LGBT-related policies and practices including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the LGBT community. KKR’s efforts in satisfying all of the CEI’s criteria results in a 100 percent ranking and the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality.
For more information on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index, or to download a free copy of the report, visit www.hrc.org/cei.
The Human Rights Campaign Foundation is the educational arm of America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender and queer people. HRC envisions a world where LGBTQ people are embraced as full members of society at home, at work and in every community.
About KKR
KKR is a leading global investment firm that manages investments across multiple asset classes including private equity, energy, infrastructure, real estate, credit and hedge funds. KKR aims to generate attractive investment returns by following a patient and disciplined investment approach, employing world‐class people, and driving growth and value creation at the asset level. KKR invests its own capital alongside its partners' capital and brings opportunities to others through its capital markets business. References to KKR's investments may include the activities of its sponsored funds. For additional information about KKR & Co. L.P. (KKR), please visit KKR's website at www.kkr.com and on Twitter @KKR_Co.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006218/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}