SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch has affirmed the following Marion County School Board (the district), FL ratings:
--$93.7 million refunding COPs at 'A'.
In addition, Fitch has affirmed the district's Issuer-Default Rating (IDR) at 'A+'.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The district's COPs are payable by lease payments made to the trustee and pursuant to a master lease purchase agreement. Lease payments are payable from legally available funds of the district, subject to annual appropriation by the Marion County School Board.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The 'A+' IDR reflects the district's solid revenue growth prospects, low long-term liability burden, and adequate gap-closing capacity to maintain financial flexibility.
The 'A' rating on the COPs is one notch below the IDR, reflecting the slightly higher degree of optionality associated with lease payments subject to appropriation.
Economic Resource Base
The district, which is coterminous with Marion County, covers 1,663 squares miles and is located 65 miles north of Orlando in the center of the state. The population grew rapidly during the early 2000s, but has since leveled off to its current estimated population of 343,000. Healthcare, manufacturing, and retail are major county economic sectors. Traditional enrollment in fiscal year 2016 is approximately 41,000 with an additional 500 students in charter school. The district expects enrollment to remain steady in the near future for both traditional and charter schools.
Revenue Framework: 'a' factor assessment
District general fund operations are funded through a combination of state aid and local property taxes. Fitch anticipates a continuation of the district's revenue performance that is above inflation and slightly below GDP due to traditional school enrollment growth, increasing taxable assessed values, and the state of Florida's growth prospects for improved state school funding. The district has very limited independent ability to raise revenues.
Expenditure Framework: 'aa' factor assessment
Spending growth expectations trend at a pace marginally above revenue growth. The district benefits from low carrying costs associated with debt service and retiree costs. Management also maintains reasonable control over staffing, wages, and benefits.
Long-Term Liability Burden: 'aaa' factor assessment
Limited capital plans, participation in a well-funded pension plan and rapid debt amortization support long-term liabilities that are low compared to personal income.
Operating Performance: 'a' factor assessment
Fitch expects the district, supported by expenditure flexibility, would maintain a satisfactory safety margin in a moderate economic decline scenario. Management recently rebuilt reserve levels above targeted levels after falling below in the past. Future projections by the district estimate meeting targeted fund balance levels in both fiscal years 2016 and 2017.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Sustained Positive Operations: There is potential upward rating momentum should the district successfully maintain positive operations and an elevated safety margin.
CREDIT PROFILE
The district is supported by a diverse economy that has strongholds in healthcare, retail, and manufacturing. Private sector manufacturing plants are currently being built in the district, providing job growth in the near future.
The fast growing population contributed to steep increases in the taxable assessed value (TAV) throughout the district but was susceptible to high volatility during the Great Recession. The district experienced five years of TAV decline between 2008 and 2013 but has been on a healthy, upward trajectory since 2014.
The district's unemployment numbers, while currently declining, are higher than the state's average. Income levels trend lower than the state levels.
Revenue Framework
The Florida Education Finance Program (FEFP) is the primary mechanism for funding the operating costs of Florida school districts. The FEFP process determines a base per-student funding level. The funding is split between the state funds, largely derived from statewide sales tax revenue, and local funds via the required local millage rate established pursuant to state statutory procedure. Discretionary taxes for operations and capital/maintenance are also levied by the district, and currently lie at the statutory maximum of 0.748 mills and 1.5 mills, respectively. State aid comprised roughly 57% of revenues and property taxes were another 38% of revenues.
A 1-mill voted referendum is set to expire on June 30, 2019. This millage currently generates approximately 5% of revenue.
Fitch's view of school district revenue prospects considers the revenue performance of the state as a starting point given its fundamental responsibility for public education funding. Fitch believes Florida's revenue prospects will grow at a pace that is above the rate of inflation but below U.S. economic performance based on a resumption of population growth and stronger economic expansion. School district revenue expectations are somewhat tempered by the state's education funding commitments which have been variable in recent history with annual changes in the base student allocation as low as a 1% increase for fiscal 2017. Enrollment trends and expectations are the second key determinant of a school district's revenue growth prospects and are based on Fitch's view of the local economy, demographic patterns, and competition from non-traditional public schools, among other factors. Fitch anticipates the district will follow similar growth prospects as the state of Florida, especially considering the district has also performed above inflation but below GDP. Traditional school enrollment numbers reflected modest increases over the past several years and the district projects this trend will likely continue. Charter school enrollment represents a minimum, approximately 1%, amount of enrollment.
Due to the state funding mechanism, Florida school districts essentially have very limited ability to independently increase general fund revenues. However, this limitation as a factor in the revenue framework assessment is somewhat offset by the recognition of K-12 education as fundamentally a state responsibility and the strong foundation of state support for education funding.
Expenditure Framework
Salaries and benefits are the largest expenditure items for the district. These two items combined accounted for approximately 78% of general fund spending in fiscal 2015.
Fitch expects the pace of spending to generally match or slightly exceed revenue trends for the near future, reflecting enrollment driven spending needs largely funded by the state funding formula.
Wages and benefits are collectively bargained and the district has relatively good control over employee related expenditures. The district is currently ratifying a contract for fiscal 2017 with the teachers union and is in bargaining talks with the trades and services union. In the event of an economic downturn, the district has the capacity to reduce spending by not filling vacant positions and reducing discretionary spending on materials and supplies.
Carrying costs related to debt service, pensions, and OPEB were low at 8% of total government spending in fiscal year 2015.
Long-Term Liability Burden
The district's long-term liability burden, related to debt and the district's share of the net pension liability of the Florida Retirement System, is low at 1.8% of personal income in 2015. The district's debt amortizes rapidly at 91% in 10 years.
The current fiscal 2017-2021 $44 million capital improvement plan funds school infrastructure repairs by pay-go. The district expects no additional debt issuance.
Pensions are provided through the state run FRS and costs are manageable. FRS is well-funded at a reported 86.5% as of July 1, 2015 or an estimated 80.7% when adjusted by Fitch to assume a 7% rate of return, and as such costs are not expected to increase materially.
Operating Performance
The three-year scenario revenue estimate generated by Fitch's analytical sensitivity tool (FAST) indicates that revenues would decline modestly in the 1% GDP decline. Fitch expects the district to address a revenue downturn as it has in the past, by taking adequate measures to reduce spending and limit the use of reserves to maintain an adequate level of financial flexibility. Available balances outside of the general fund, specifically capital funds, augment flexibility.
District reserves have recovered to the 5% to 7% fund balance target after dropping during fiscal years 2012 and 2013. Decreased revenues had prompted the fund balance drawdown, although reserves remained above the state's requirements. Current projections indicate a reserve build up in fiscal 2016, although the $350.2 million fiscal 2017 budget incorporates a fund balance appropriation. The district anticipates meeting its fund balance target for both years.
The district has historically paid COPs debt service with revenue from its capital outlay millage, although all legally available revenues are available for this purpose. Current legislation allows Florida school districts to levy 1.5 mils for capital outlay. Three-fourths (1.125 mills) of the 1.5 mills levy is available for COPs debt service associated with new issuance after 2009. The district currently levies 1.5 mills and expects to use .851 mills of the capital outlay millage for COPs MADS. This amount is 57% the state cap.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
In addition to the sources of information identified in the applicable criteria specified below, this action was informed by information from Lumesis and InvestorTools.
Applicable Criteria
U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015828
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015828
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright (C) 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161202005771/en/