President-elect Donald Trump is willing to help resolve Pakistan’s outstanding problems as he seeks to develop a “strong working relationship” with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, according to two separate statements.
“I am ready and willing to play any role that you want me to play to address and find solutions to the outstanding problems,” Trump told Sharif when the latter called him to congratulate him on his election victory, the statement released by Pakistani premier’s office said late Wednesday. "You have a very good reputation," Trump said. "You are a terrific guy. Pakistanis are one of the most intelligent people."
More from Bloomberg.com: OPEC Confounds Skeptics, Agrees to First Oil Cuts in 8 Years
According to the Trump transition team’s statement, Trump had “a productive conversation” with Sharif.
Relations between the long-time allies have been strained, with the U.S. demanding Pakistan take action against militants based in the South Asian country carrying out attacks in neighboring Afghanistan and India. In April, the U.S. withheld $300 million of military aid to Pakistan after Defense Secretary Ash Carter found he couldn’t certify that enough action had been taken against the Haqqani Network insurgent group.
Trump accepted Sharif’s invitation to visit Pakistan, saying the premier was doing “amazing work which is visible in every way.” The last U.S. President to visit Pakistan was George W. Bush in 2006.
The readout of the phone call ends with Trump asking Sharif to “convey to the Pakistani people that they are amazing and all Pakistanis I have known are exceptional people."
 To read about Trump’s comments on Muslims during his campaign, click here 
But Trump has not always felt so warmly towards Pakistan. In 2012, he tweeted: "Get it straight. Pakistan is not our friend" and called on Pakistan to "apologize to us for providing safe sanctuary for Osama Bin Laden for 6 years? Some ’ally’."
More from Bloomberg.com: Goldman Says Trump's Presidency Will Benefit Stocks in Almost Every Sector
And while he did not focus much attention on Pakistan during the election campaign, Trump was vocal in his policies on Muslims. In a statement released by his campaign in December 2015, he called for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on." After his election victory, that statement was removed from his campaign website. Pakistan is the world’s second-largest Muslim-majority country.
The Pakistani premier may seek Trump’s help to improve relations with its eastern neighbor India as he seeks to resume bilateral talks. India accuses Pakistan-based militants of attacking its forces in the disputed northern territory of Kashmir.
More from Bloomberg.com: Wall Street Wins Again as Trump Picks Bankers, Billionaires
 For a report on India’s foreign policy shift, click here 
"As far as his role as president is concerned, he would be willing to provide a mediator role," said Najam Rafique, director at Islamabad-based Institute of Strategic Study. 
"Pakistan shouldn’t accept a concessionary approach from the Trump administration,” Rafique said. “Pakistan would have to show the White House that it’s willing to talk-shop with India on issues of regional concerns. I would just play it by ear while he tries to settle down in the While House, reach out and pacify the impression he had created over the election campaign, particularly with regard to South Asia."
Adds Trump comment to second paragraph.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Trump Pledges to Help ‘Terrific’ Pakistan PM Solve Problems on bloomberg.com