BURBANK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
BRP Pharmaceuticals has been awarded the prestigious accreditation by The National Association of Boards of Pharmacy’s (NABP) Verified-Accredited Wholesale Distributors® (VAWD®) program. “This means that our physician customers are assured of the highest standards of safety and efficacy of the prescription medications provided by BRP Pharmaceuticals,” said Fred Ganjian, RPh, Vice President Sales and Marketing.
The Verified-Accredited Wholesale Distributors (VAWD) accreditation requires a rigorous criteria compliance review, licensure verification, survey, background checks and screening through the NABP Clearinghouse. VAWD was established in 2004 to help protect the public from the threat of counterfeit drugs in the U.S. drug supply and was developed at the request of the FDA. VAWD is part of the Model State Pharmacy Act and Model Rules of the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy.
Ganjian added, “BRP Pharmaceuticals’ operational standards far exceed the standards required to meet licensing regulations.” In addition to the VAWD program, BRP also participates in the transaction history requirements of the Drug Supply Act, which ensures complete control of all medications from the manufacturer to the patient. “We take pride in being leaders in all aspects of product safety and efficacy. Our physician customers can have total confidence in dispensing any medication provided by BRP Pharmaceuticals,” said Sanjay Anand, President and CEO of BRP Pharmaceuticals.
BRP Pharmaceuticals maintains state-of-the-art facilities and programs for all phases of the drug distribution chain and has experienced significant growth due to superior service and aggressive quality controls. “We can guarantee that every product is legitimate and our physician clients can dispense them to their patients with complete confidence,” said Ganjian, who is a Registered Pharmacist. “We know of no other supplier who employees the full range of protections that we do,” Ganjian added.
BRP Pharmaceuticals is staffed by licensed professionals and carries over 2,800 prescription medications, including CII, CIII, CIV, injectables, vaccines, cephalosporin, penicillin and medical foods. BRP provides a barcode-driven inventory control system and comprehensive legal compliance package that makes CURES reporting as easy as a click of a button.
BRP is licensed by the FDA and DEA to provide point-of-care pharmaceutical programs in 45 states from a new state-of-the-art facility in Burbank, CA. BRP provides physicians with total support for prescription programs that support patient care by eliminating standing in lines at pharmacies and makes certain prescriptions are filled. Point-of-care dispensing contributes to ACO wellness criteria and provides physicians with a major income stream for their clinics.
BRP Pharmaceuticals recently added an online website and physicians are free to call Fred Ganjian at 1-877-885-0882 to inquire about the online discount program.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005355/en/