KYOTO, Japan & GRENOBLE, France--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. (SCREEN) and Leti, a CEA Tech institute, today announced they have stepped up their collaboration with the installation at Leti’s site of a nanosecond-scale UV laser anneal LT-3100 system to be delivered by Laser Systems and Solutions of Europe (LASSE), SCREEN’s subsidiary based in France.
“The introduction of SCREEN’s nanosecond-scale UV laser anneal tool in Leti’s leading-edge, pre-industrial equipment infrastructure will open new innovation opportunities for current and future technology being developed on site,” said Leti CEO Marie Semeria. “With SOI, CoolCubeTM and nanowire technologies development, we are facing increased challenges in developing new material property and ultra-thin-film modification with minimal thermal impact. Leveraging the LT-3100 system will enable solutions for technology breakthroughs that will eventually lead to the development of practical demonstrators for industry.”
“Following a long history of successful joint developments with Leti, we are very excited by the opportunity to bring our laser technology to Leti’s ecosystem to support ‘More than Moore’, IoT and future innovation technology requirements,” said Tadahiro Suhara, president of SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions. “In addition to the collaboration activities, we will use Leti’s state-of-the-art infrastructure to operate our LASSE European demo lab, giving our customers unprecedented demonstration infrastructure capability. We expect to showcase the innovation value that our nanosecond-scale UV laser-equipment technology and resources bring to advance semiconductor process development in multiple fields of research and development as supported by Leti.”
The Laser tool is expected to be fully operational in the first half of 2017 and will support multiple wafer size requirements to meet the different needs of Leti’s laboratories.
About Leti (France)
As one of three advanced-research institutes within CEA Tech, Leti serves as a bridge between basic research and production of micro- and nanotechnologies that improve the lives of people around the world. It is committed to creating innovation and transferring it to industry. Backed by its portfolio of 2,800 patents, Leti partners with large industrials, SMEs and startups to tailor advanced solutions that strengthen their competitive positions. It has launched 59 startups. Its 8,500m² of new-generation cleanroom space feature 200mm and 300mm wafer processing of micro and nano solutions for applications ranging from space to smart devices. With a staff of more than 1,900, Leti is based in Grenoble, France, and has offices in Silicon Valley, Calif., and Tokyo. CEA Tech is the technology research branch of the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA), a key player in innovative R&D, defence & security, nuclear energy, technological research for industry and fundamental science, identified by Thomson Reuters as the most innovative research organization in the world. CEA Tech leverages a unique innovation-driven culture and unrivalled expertise to develop and disseminate new technologies for industry, helping to create high-end products and provide a competitive edge. Follow us on www.leti.fr and @CEA_Leti.
About SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd.
SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions has been established as a group company of SCREEN Holdings inheriting the semiconductor equipment business from its predecessor, Dainippon Screen. SCREEN is a specialized manufacturer in various areas such as wafer cleaning equipment, lithography equipment and thermal anneals, and is one of the world’s top 10 equipment suppliers to the semiconductor manufacturing industry.
For more information, please visit www.screen.co.jp/eng/spe.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005090/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}