JERUSALEM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
OurCrowd, the world’s leading equity crowdfunding platform, will host the 2017 OurCrowd Global Investor Summit on Feb. 16, 2017, in Jerusalem. It will be the world’s largest equity crowdfunding event and the biggest investor event in the Startup Nation.
Registrations have already doubled from this time last year, with up to 5,000 people from the global tech investment community expected to attend. Attendees will span an expected 60 countries, and will include investors, venture and corporate partners, entrepreneurs, 30 global delegations, industry leaders and members of the press.
At last year’s Summit, participants got a glimpse of the future. This year, that potential will become a reality, as delegates will see the startup technologies changing the world, presented by a stellar lineup of senior executives from some of the largest and most innovative global companies. The 2017 OurCrowd Global Investor Summit theme, “The Future Is Here,” will showcase how 2016’s highlighted cutting-edge technologies are being implemented in businesses now and remaking entire industries.
More than 100 startups making news are slated to participate, including:
Summit attendees will also hear from the venture capital professionals evolving the face of investing, as the startups they support have begun to leverage the collective intelligence and connections of the crowd to super-charge their businesses. They will also experience the power of the crowd hands-on, by participating in onsite real-time synergizing and the Summit’s popular interactive Crowd Investing Hackathon, as well as meeting peers from the largest collaborative venture capital community in the world.
OurCrowd CEO Jon Medved said, “We’re bringing back the largest event of its kind for a third straight year, to showcase the arrival of the future of the tech industry through the pioneering companies creating technologies that are changing the world right now.”
“The goal of the Summit is for the crowd to discover actionable investing ideas, hear from global industry leaders on how they’re driving their businesses and swap ideas with some of the world’s leading entrepreneurs. The innovators and global industry leaders behind the tech can meet and interact with some of the biggest venture capital investors in the market and have the chance to pitch and test their cutting-edge ideas,” said Medved.
2016 Highlights:
About OurCrowd: OurCrowd is the leading global equity crowdfunding platform for accredited investors. Managed by a team of seasoned investment professionals and led by serial entrepreneur Jon Medved, OurCrowd vets and selects opportunities, invests its own capital, and brings companies to its accredited membership of global investors. OurCrowd provides post-investment support to its portfolio companies, assigns industry experts as mentors, and takes board seats. The OurCrowd community of over 15,000 investors from over 110 countries has invested over $320M into 100 portfolio companies and funds. OurCrowd has already had nine exits to date: two IPOs and seven acquisitions. To join OurCrowd as an accredited investor, visit http://www.ourcrowd.com and click Join.
About the 2017 OurCrowd Global Investor Summit: The OurCrowd Global Investor Summit is the biggest equity crowdfunding event in the world, and the biggest investor event in the Startup Nation. Now in its third year, the Summit has hosted thousands of investors, venture and corporate partners, entrepreneurs, global delegations, industry leaders and members of the press. Attendees hailing from more than 50 countries gather in Jerusalem, the capital of the Startup Nation, to celebrate the global community’s collective drive for innovation. Each year, attendees come from all over the world to hear from expert industry speakers and participate in interactive programming featuring cutting-edge technologies and the future of crowd investing. They also have the opportunity to support portfolio companies through significant fundraising and making strategic business connections to help grow their businesses. The focus of the Summit is on the global rise of the crowd, the democratization of startup investing and the arrival of the future of the tech industry.
Photos and Videos from 2016 Summit
Photos
Video playlist
For Press Materials: http://blog.ourcrowd.com/press-release-2017-summit/
To R.S.V.P. to the 2017 OurCrowd Global Investor Summit: summit.ourcrowd.com
For more information: summit@ourcrowd.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006361/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}