NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Business Wire and Agility PR Solutions have announced a new strategic partnership to provide communications professionals with enhanced distribution, monitoring and media analytics capabilities. This move expands Business Wire’s already wide set of communications tools by offering clients a seamless and cost-effective solution to integrate media outreach and multi-outlet monitoring into their communications campaigns.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005339/en/ 
“Business Wire’s commitment to our customers continues to be our number one priority. This new partnership with Agility PR Solutions will help our customers elevate their communications campaigns by better targeting relevant journalists and influencers, staying current on critical industry trends, and measuring the true effectiveness of their messaging,” said Cathy Baron Tamraz, Business Wire’s CEO.
Since 2003, organizations have trusted Agility PR Solutions, now a subsidiary of Innodata (INOD) for their media database, monitoring, and analytics needs.
“This exciting new partnership with Business Wire will provide clients a complete communications solution for distribution, targeting and monitoring. With complementary products and a dedication to client success, our joint solutions will help PR professionals amplify their PR & communications strategies,” stated Martin Lyster, CEO, Agility PR Solutions.
With the strategic partnership of Agility PR Solutions and Business Wire, customers can:
A critical component of this new relationship is both Business Wire’s and Agility PR Solutions’ commitment to providing exceptional customer support and service. Clients who take advantage of these new communications services can rely on Agility PR Solutions to provide support that goes above and beyond to ensure they get the most from their investment.
The new strategic relationship between Business Wire and Agility PR Solutions is effective immediately and is designed to help customers as they build and create their communications strategies in 2017 and beyond.
About Business Wire:
Business Wire, a Berkshire Hathaway company, is the global leader in press release distribution and regulatory disclosure. Investor relations, public relations, public policy and marketing professionals rely on Business Wire to accurately distribute market-moving news and multimedia, host online newsrooms and IR websites, build content marketing platforms, generate social engagements and provide audience analysis that improves interaction with specified target markets. Founded in 1961, Business Wire is a trusted source for news organizations, journalists, investment professionals and regulatory authorities, delivering news directly into editorial systems and leading online news sources via its multi-patented simultaneous NX Network. Business Wire has 29 offices worldwide to securely meet the varying needs of communications professionals and news consumers. In 2015, Business Wire teamed up with Al Roker Entertainment to create BizWireTV, a bi-weekly digital video news program that features the top trending news releases that cross the wire.
Learn more at services.BusinessWire.com and Tempo, the Business Wire resource for industry trends; follow updates on Twitter: @businesswire or on Facebook.
Click here to subscribe to Mobile Alerts for Business Wire.
About Agility PR Solutions
Agility PR Solutions provides media database, monitoring and analytics solutions to simplify the communications lifecycle. Since 2003, clients have trusted our tools and services to help them identify influencers, amplify messages, monitor coverage and measure results. Agility PR Solutions, a subsidiary of Innodata (INOD), is dedicated to delighting every client - and we have the highest retention rates in the industry to prove it. Visit www.agilitypr.com to find out more and follow us on Twitter @agilityprs

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005339/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005339/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}