MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Jerry’s ABRA Auto Body & Glass, a locally owned and operated franchise in Mankato, Minnesota, announced today it had donated $4,900 to the Alzheimer’s Association.
The donation is the result of a summer long partnership between Jerry’s ABRA and the Mankato MoonDogs amateur baseball team. Each time the MoonDogs scored a home run at their home ballpark, Franklin Rogers Park (known as “The Frank”), Jerry’s ABRA made a one hundred dollar donation to the Alzheimer’s Association.
The MoonDogs hit 49 home runs at The Frank during the 2016 season, resulting in the $4,900 donation. The contribution will be used to fund research efforts to end Alzheimer’s and dementia and enhance care for those living with the disease.
“We are truly grateful for the long-standing and significant support Jerry’s ABRA Auto Body & Glass and the Mankato MoonDogs have shown us,” said Debbie Eddy, community engagement senior manager, Alzheimer’s Association. “Their contribution will make a difference in the lives of many local families impacted by Alzheimer’s and dementia.”
Jerry’s ABRA Chief Financial Officer, Geralynn Kottschade, said the company is pleased to once again support such a wonderful cause. “The Alzheimer’s Association is an incredible organization taking care of many members of our community faced with a life changing diagnosis. We are honored to continue to support the mission to provide new treatments, preventions, and ultimately a cure for Alzheimer’s and other dementias.”
About the Alzheimer’s Association®The Alzheimer’s Association is the leading voluntary health organization in Alzheimer's care, support and research. Our mission is to eliminate Alzheimer’s disease through the advancement of research, to provide and enhance care and support for all affected, and to reduce the risk of dementia through the promotion of brain health. Our vision is a world without Alzheimer’s. For more information, visit the Alzheimer’s Association at alz.org/mnnd or call the 24/7 helpline at 800.272.3900.
About Mankato MoonDogsThe Mankato MoonDogs are a member of the finest developmental league for elite college baseball players, the Northwoods League. The team formed in 2001 and plays at Franklin Rogers Park in Mankato, Minnesota. The MoonDogs 2016 season opened on May 31 and culminated on August 14.
About Jerry’s ABRA Auto Body & GlassJerry’s Body Shop opened in 1971 and joined the ABRA Auto Body & Glass franchise group in 2015. Founded in 1984 and headquartered in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, ABRA is a leading provider of vehicle repair services specializing in collision repair, paintless dent removal, and auto glass repair and replacement. ABRA’s mission is to be the best auto body and glass company in America by providing quality repairs, in a timely manner, with friendly, helpful service. For more information about ABRA visit www.abraauto.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161202005781/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}