LOS ALTOS, Calif. & RAMAT GAN, Israel--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
LightCyber, a leading provider of Behavioral Attack Detection solutions, today announced that Qualified Service Assessor (QSA) consulting firm, HALOCK Security Labs, has concluded that the LightCyber Magna™ platform meets the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) intrusion detection Requirement 11.4 based on their testing of the product.
Requirement 11.4 calls for “use of network intrusion detection systems and/or intrusion prevention systems to monitor all traffic in the cardholder data environment and alert personnel to suspected compromises.” LightCyber Magna goes well beyond these requirements by providing full visibility into the entire attack lifecycle, rather than just the initial intrusion vector. Magna works by finding the anomalous operational behaviors of malicious insiders and external attackers rather than just finding known threats using attack signatures.
“Traditional security architectures largely fail to uncover active network attackers targeting payment card data,” said Jason Matlof, executive vice president, LightCyber. “Our unique approach to attack detection combined with the recent PCI compliance certification provides PCI regulated entities a new level of security to turn the tables on would-be attackers, while simultaneously complying with PCI regulations.”
The LightCyber Magna platform uses behavioral profiling to learn what is normal on the network and endpoints, allowing it to detect behavioral anomalies that are indicative of an attack, including both external attackers and internal attackers. These behaviors can be identified early to reduce attacker dwell time and curtail attack activity. Magna presents a small number of actionable alerts with supporting contextual and investigative details to greatly enhance the efficiency of a security operations team in its detection and remediation operations.
“Given that advanced attacks are becoming common, it is imperative to evolve preventative security by adding a way to quickly find attackers that will inevitably get through an organization’s defenses,” said Tod Ferran, Managing Consultant, HALOCK Security Labs. “We tested the LightCyber Magna platform and determined that it not only fulfills PCI DSS Requirement 11.4 but also addresses internal attackers and ones that have managed to bypass perimeter controls.”
A recent LightCyber customer, Arriva Trains, was challenged by their QSA to not only fulfill PCI DSS but to also detect successful network attackers. Their auditor asked, “If you had an attacker on your network, how would you be able to detect it?”
Now, with LightCyber Magna deployed, Arriva Trains has addressed the PCI DSS breach detection requirements, while also achieving high levels of network visibility and giving them the ability to find a potential attacker early before theft or damage occurs. “We picked LightCyber because it could clearly show us what was going on,” explained Paul Stern, IT Network and Security Manager, Arriva Trains.
Network Traffic Analysis (NTA) solutions such as LightCyber Magna are ideally suited for uncovering post-intrusion activity, including internal reconnaissance and lateral movement, that cannot easily be identified through traditional attack signatures. In the Gartner report published September 20, 2106, Defining Intrusion Detection and Prevention Solutions (G00310148), analysts Craig Lawson, Adam Hils and Claudio Neiva note that "Gartner has seen clients consider other NTA and breach-detection technologies instead of or as something different from IPS. For example, you have already deployed an NGFW and are comfortable with its IPS effectiveness, then subsequently opt for a dedicated NTA prevention instead of a discrete IPS is an option Gartner see's clients pursuing.”
Resources
White Paper on the Magna Platform and PCI DSS Requirement 11.4
Podcast with HALOCK Security Labs about strategies to prevent a data breach
Blog “How I Came to Stop Worrying About a Data Breach and Learned to Love PCI DSS Compliance”
Resource site about the Magna platform and PCI DSS
About PCI
PCI security standards are technical and operational requirements set by the PCI Security Standards Council (PCI SSC) to protect cardholder data. The standards apply to all organizations that store, process or transmit cardholder data – with guidance for software developers and manufacturers of applications and devices used in those transactions. The Council is responsible for managing the security standards, while compliance with the PCI set of standards is enforced by the founding members of the Council, American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa Inc.
About Halock Security Labs
Founded in 1996, HALOCK Security Labs is a hybrid cyber-security firm with strengths in both management consulting and technical consulting. HALOCK's philosophy of Purpose Driven Security® focuses on defining and implementing just the right amount of security — not too much, not too little — customized to each client's business purpose. HALOCK's services include: Security Risk Management, Governance and Compliance, Penetration Testing, Incident Response Planning, Incident Response & Forensics, Security Organization Development, Advanced Threat Diagnostics, and Engineering Security Product Solutions.
About LightCyber
LightCyber is a leading provider of Behavioral Attack Detection solutions that provide accurate and efficient security visibility into attacks that have slipped through the cracks of traditional security controls. The LightCyber Magna™ platform is the first security product to integrate user, network and endpoint context to provide security visibility into a range of attack activity. Founded in 2012 and led by world-class cyber security experts, the company’s products have been successfully deployed by top-tier customers around the world in industries including the financial, legal, telecom, government, media and technology sectors. For more information, please visit http://www.lightcyber.com or follow us on Twitter, LinkedIn and Facebook.
LightCyber and Magna are trademarks of LightCyber in the United States and other countries. All other brands, products, or service names are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005125/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}