ÖSTERSUND, Sweden--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Skanska has sold the office building Atrium 2 in Warsaw, Poland, to HANSAINVEST Hanseatische Investment-GmbH. The value of the transaction is EUR 88M, about SEK 830M, and the sale will be recorded by Skanska Commercial Development Europe in the fourth quarter of 2016. The transaction is expected to be closed in the second half of December 2016.
Atrium 2 is an example of future-proof office space that provides full flexibility in both planning and interior design. The office building was commissioned for use in March 2016. The total leasable area is over 20,000 square meters and the office project is expected to receive LEED Platinum certification.
Atrium 2 is a vibrant business location in the city center, with excellent access to public transportation – less than 100 meters away from a Metro station as well as numerous tram and bus stops. The development of the project has also improved the surrounding area for local residents. A number of creative solutions for new places in the area have been accomplished, including a new green square, the refurbishment of a promenade and the creation of a large mural painting.
Skanska Commercial Development Europe initiates and develops office property projects. The company’s operations are concentrated in the metropolitan areas of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Poland and are conducted in four local units: Skanska Property Czech Republic, Skanska Property Hungary, Skanska Romania and Skanska Property Poland.
This and previous releases can also be found at www.skanska.com
The information provided herein is such as Skanska AB is obligated to disclose pursuant to the EU market securities act (EU) no. 596/2014.
Skanska is one of the world’s leading project development and construction groups with expertise in construction, development of commercial and residential premises, and public-private partnerships projects. Based on its global green experience, Skanska aims to be the clients' first choice for Green solutions. The Group currently has 43,100 employees in selected home markets in Europe and North America. Skanska's sales in 2015 totaled SEK 155 billion.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006567/en/