DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Coronary Stents Market: Global Industry Analysis and Opportunity Assessment 2016-2026" report to their offering.
The global coronary stents market is estimated to be valued at US$ 11.32 Bn by 2026, registering a CAGR of 6.6% over the forecast period.
A coronary stent is a small cylindrical device used during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Coronary stents help relieve the symptoms of coronary heart disease by reducing blockages and improving blood flow to the heart. They are beneficial for patients suffering from coronary artery diseases such as myocardial infarction and unstable angina.
The global coronary stents market is driven by an increasing occurrence of lifestyle diseases such as obesity and cardiovascular diseases such as angina pectoris and ischemic heart disease especially in developed countries. Also, an increasing meditech progress in the cardiovascular field is expected to drive the growth of the global coronary stents market during the forecast period.
Cardiologists the world over prefer advanced stenting procedures and this is another important factor boosting market growth. However, various complications and risks associated with stenting procedures and high costs of drug eluting stents is expected to adversely affect the revenue growth of the global coronary stents market over the forecast period.
Abbott Laboratories, Medtronic, and Boston Scientific Corporation emerged as the market leaders in the global coronary stents market for both the Drug Eluting Stent and Bare Metal Stent segments in 2015. The top three market players are estimated to hold more than 70% revenue share of the global coronary stents market in 2016. Abbott Laboratories accounted for the largest share in the global coronary stents market in 2015. Boston Scientific Corporation held maximum revenue share in Brazil in 2015. The company has a strong foothold in the domestic market of Latin America, particularly in the rapidly growing cardiovascular devices market in Brazil and other emerging countries.
Market segmentation
By Product Type
By Raw Material
By End Use
Key Topics Covered:
1. Executive Summary
2. Assumptions and Acronyms Used
3. Research Methodology
4. Coronary Stents Market Introduction
5. Coronary Stents Market Analysis Scenario
6. Coronary Stents Market Dynamics
7. Global Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast, By Product
8. Global Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast, By Raw Material
9. Global Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast, By End User
10. Global Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast, By Region
11. North America Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast
12. Latin America Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast
13. Brazil Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast
14. Western Europe Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast
15. Eastern Europe Coronary Stents Market Analysis and Forecast
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/ww28bx/coronary_stents

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005636/en/