COLUMBIA, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Tenable Network Security®, Inc., a global leader transforming security technology for the business needs of tomorrow, announced today it has been recognized as a 2016 Top Workplace by The Baltimore Sun.
“In an industry driven by technological innovation, our employees are our greatest strength,” said Ann Burns, vice president of human resources, Tenable Network Security. “It’s important to us to foster a culture of creativity and collaboration. We’re honored that Tenable employees have once again named us a Baltimore Sun Top Workplace for 2016.”
The Baltimore Sun Top Workplaces are evaluated based on surveys sent to employees of nominated companies. This year’s Top Workplaces surveyed more than two million employees in over 6,000 organizations across the country.
The company’s commitment to fostering a creative and successful company culture has earned Tenable numerous awards, such as those from Baltimore Magazine, Glassdoor, Washingtonian and The Washington Post. Tenable was also recently honored with the Governor’s Award from the Chesapeake Regional Tech Council for its contributions to the Maryland business community through growth and job creation.
For more information on joining the Tenable team, visit the company’s career site at tenable.com/careers, and follow career updates on LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook.
About Tenable Network Security
Tenable Network Security transforms security technology for the business needs of tomorrow through comprehensive solutions that provide continuous visibility and critical context, enabling decisive actions to protect your organization. Tenable eliminates blind spots, prioritizes threats, and reduces exposure and loss. With more than one million users and more than 20,000 enterprise customers worldwide, organizations trust Tenable for proven security innovation. Tenable's customers range from Fortune Global 500 companies, to the U.S. Department of Defense, to mid-sized and small businesses in all sectors, including finance, government, healthcare, higher education, retail and energy. Transform security with Tenable, the creators of Nessus® and leaders in continuous monitoring, by visiting tenable.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005755/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}