BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Mirakl, a leading global marketplace solutions provider, today announced the availability of its SAP-certified extension for the SAP® Hybris® Commerce solution. Designed to speed the time-to-market for companies to launch their own online marketplaces, the extension makes it faster and easier to integrate the Mirakl Marketplace Platform™ with SAP Hybris Commerce to onboard external vendors and sync critical product and commerce components. This new extension, which is featured in the Hybris Extend Marketplace, completes the majority of the integration work required to connect the Mirakl Marketplace Platform with SAP Hybris Commerce. As a result, customers are better able to focus on their marketplace strategy rather than the integration effort.
In 2015, nearly a third of all U.S. ecommerce sales were completed on the top 10 marketplaces, according to research released by Retail Touchpoints. The online marketplace model, pioneered by Amazon.com, eBay and Alibaba, has taken both B2C and B2B ecommerce by storm. According to a study conducted by Forrester Consulting, commissioned by Mirakl, 89% of global consumers agree that marketplaces offer convenience; 90% said they would shop with same marketplace again when purchasing a similar product. To help them meet consumer expectations for greater choice, competitive prices and service experience, Mirakl gives manufacturers and retailers the solution and expertise they need to launch their own online marketplace. Customers such as Outiz, a major brand of Saint-Gobain Retail Building France, and Galeries Lafayette, rely on SAP Hybris Commerce and Mirakl to offer their B2C and B2B customers a smooth omni-channel experience.
The Mirakl Marketplace Platform integration for SAP Hybris Commerce:
“We are excited to work with SAP Hybris and offer customers an efficient way to integrate our solutions, speeding time-to-market for marketplace projects,” said Adrien Nussenbaum, U.S. CEO and co-founder, Mirakl. “Mirakl has been recognized for pioneering and streamlining the development of marketplaces, an area of keen importance to global brands. Our industry-leading solutions are recognized for the security, reliability and robust features that modernize and improve our customer's digital experience. Through this integration, we seek to accelerate the deployment of marketplaces on SAP Hybris Commerce.”
“At SAP Hybris, we believe the path to providing the greatest customer value is by offering a flexible, extensible platform to drive digital business,” said Marcus Ruebsam, senior vice president, Global Head Solution Management, SAP Hybris. “The Mirakl Marketplace Platform solution and the Mirakl extension help accelerate customer value for our B2B and B2C customers globally, who are investing in marketplace capabilities.”
The Mirakl Marketplace Platform™ makes it easier for commerce and marketing teams to enrich the customer experience by quickly scaling product assortment, without overhead. Bringing more product selection through easily managed external vendors helps increase the brand footprint, making it easier to acquire new customers and retain current customers.
About Mirakl
Mirakl provides a state-of-the-art software solution that allows B2C and B2B organizations to launch and operate an online Marketplace. The Mirakl Marketplace Platform makes it easy for operators to onboard vast numbers of vendors in a single platform to drastically increase their product selection, competitive prices, and a superior shopping experience. Mirakl helps some of the world’s leading organizations, large and small, including Best Buy Canada, Auchan, Carrefour, Condé Nast, Darty, Galeries Lafayette, Halfords and Truffaut to drive commerce and offer a greater scope for expansion combined with higher profit growth and lower risk. Founded in 2012, Mirakl drives Marketplace projects in more than 20 countries around the world and closed a $20 million Series B round of funding in July 2015. For more information: www.mirakl.com.
SAP, Hybris and other SAP products and services mentioned herein as well as their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of SAP SE (or an SAP affiliate company) in Germany and other countries. See http://www.sap.com/corporate-en/legal/copyright/index.epx for additional trademark information and notices.
SAP Forward-Looking Statement
Any statements contained in this document that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “should” and “will” and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations The factors that could affect SAP's future financial results are discussed more fully in SAP's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including SAP's most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005050/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}