LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Phoenix Labs, an independent game studio built on the foundation of delivering great games for players to enjoy together, has revealed their debut title at the 2016 Game Awards with Dauntless. Dauntless is an online co-op action role-playing game (RPG) set in an untamed science-fantasy world. Players take on the role of elite warriors known as Slayers who protect humanity by hunting ferocious Behemoths. Dauntless is being created by a team of industry veterans from BioWare, Riot Games, and other acclaimed studios, led by co-founders Jesse Houston, Sean Bender and Robin Mayne.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006590/en/ 
The world of Dauntless has been shattered by a cataclysmic event, creating a vast array of uncharted and majestic floating islands. Behemoths, as cunning as they are vicious, consume the land, and it’s up to the Slayers to hunt them down before they destroy what remains of the world. Slayers will explore an ever-changing frontier, brimming with verdant flora and unique wildlife.
“Phoenix Labs is made up of the most talented and passionate game developers in the world,” said Jesse Houston, co-founder and President at Phoenix Labs. “We make games because we love to play them, and we want to share these experiences with gamers everywhere. We’ve taken inspiration from games like Dark Souls, Monster Hunter, and World of Warcraft to create a new, gripping gaming experience.”
In Dauntless, Slayers can go at it alone or join cooperative parties with up to four people to take on the Behemoth threat. No two encounters are alike - each brings its own unique challenges and rewards. To survive on the Shattered Isles, players collect rewards from their hunts to upgrade their arsenal of weapons and armor in a deep and robust crafting system.
Dauntless will be available as a free-to-play downloadable game on PC in 2017.
Aspiring Slayers can find out more information on Dauntless by visiting and registering at www.playdauntless.com. To be the first to hear updates, like Dauntless on Facebook www.facebook.com/playdauntless and follow the game on Twitter www.twitter.com/playdauntless. Check out the debut trailer for Dauntless here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M6FjLGqB-uc
About Phoenix Labs
Phoenix Labs is an independent game studio based in Vancouver, British Columbia. The company was founded in 2014 to evolve the way great games are made and enjoyed. They aspire to create new AAA gaming experiences that gamers will share for years to come. Their debut title Dauntless, a co-op action RPG, is being created by a veteran team from BioWare, Riot Games, and other acclaimed studios. For more information on Phoenix Labs visit www.phoenixlabs.ca.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006590/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006590/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}