PALM HARBOR, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Nationwide Title Clearing (NTC), the leading post-closing services provider for the nation’s largest financial institutions, investors and servicers, is proud to announce that the company and its Chief Operations Officer (COO), Michael O’Connell, were recognized in the December issue of HousingWire as part of the publication’s 2016 Vanguard Awards™ program. The awards recognize C-level and business unit executives who have become leaders in their respective fields within housing and mortgage finance.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005954/en/ 
“The HW Vanguards continued to impress going into its second year; the winners are second-to-none and this list represents the finest cross section of mortgage talent available,” said Jacob Gaffney, HousingWire editor-in-chief. “These leaders from all segments of the mortgage ecosphere demonstrate that our industry is more than capable of meeting the challenges that lie ahead.”
HousingWire’s Vanguard program recognizes C-level and business unit executives who have become leaders in their respective fields within housing and mortgage finance. This year, the publication recognized 40 leaders from what it called a “field of entries among the most impressive we’ve ever seen.”
O’Connell was promoted to COO from Vice President of Client Relations in 2013. He had been leading the sales and client relations teams for 8 years at that point. Since taking on the role of COO, O’Connell has been responsible for the daily operation of NTC’s production divisions totaling the majority of their 500-plus employee workforce. In addition to collaborating with and reporting to CEO John Hillman, O’Connell is accountable for ensuring that NTC operations are of the highest quality and the company remains efficient. He oversees client relations, services delivery, including all research services and document production, and overall quality control.
“I’m honored to be recognized for this award,” O’Connell said. “We work everyday to build excellence into everything we offer our industry and it’s very much a team effort. It’s why we spend so much time training and checking our output for quality. It’s very nice to have an industry publication recognize those efforts. I’m very grateful for that and for the team I have here at NTC.”
“HousingWire says Vanguard winners excel in a variety of skill sets, but all share the ability to energize and mobilize their employees. This is certainly true of Michael,” said John Hillman, CEO of NTC and a recipient of an inaugural Vanguard Award. “We are very fortunate to have him and we benefit from his leadership every day.”
NTC recently celebrated its 25th year of innovative service to the mortgage industry and has also been recognized for its excellence many times over the years.
About NTC:
Nationwide Title Clearing, Inc. (NTC) is a privately-owned leading research and document-processing service provider to the residential mortgage industry. NTC services mortgage lenders, servicers and investors, including eight of the top 10 residential mortgage servicers in the country, resulting in an expansion that is also tied to its contribution to its industry and its local community. NTC ranked number 3108 on the 2015 Inc. 500/5000 list of fastest-growing companies in America. NTC has also won the Tampa Bay Times Top 100 Workplace Designation five times in its history. For more information, visit the company’s website at www.nwtc.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005954/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005954/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}