NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Odeon Capital Group LLC (“Odeon”), a New York-based independent Broker-Dealer with trading, investment banking and research services, today announced that Jahanara Nissar has joined the firm to help continue its growth of its Equity platform.
Ms. Nissar is an accomplished investment professional skilled at building and presenting investment theses in the TMT space with expert knowledge of corporate strategies and their investment implications. Ms. Nissar will work as a TMT Equity Desk Analyst.
Prior to joining Odeon Capital in 2016, Ms. Nissar was with Alliance Bernstein in Sales and Trading focused on the Tech, Media, Telecom space as a Product Specialist where she generated trading ideas and collaborated in running the desk’s Media and Internet trading pad which was recognized as the top grossing commission pad on Bernstein’s trading desk in 2014. Prior to Alliance Bernstein, Ms. Nissar was at RBC Capital markets in Equity Research covering the Communications Technology space and at Citigroup covering the Homebuilders. Ms. Nissar received a MBA from the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business and is also a graduate of Mount Union College.
Ms. Nissar joins Jesse Cole as recent additions to Odeon’s equity platform. “I am excited that Jahanara has joined Odeon, she is someone who can add immediate value to clients through her keen knowledge of the TMT sector and we look forward to helping our clients succeed as we grow our platform,” Mr. Cole said. Odeon’s co-Founder and Head of Research, Mathew Van Alstyne, commented, “By adding Jahanara to our team, we continue our commitment to invest in our business where it will help our clients the most; we believe our clients will see the added value Odeon can provide as we grow, and are excited to have Jahanara be a big part of it.”
About Odeon Capital Group LLC
Odeon Capital Group LLC (Member FINRA, SIPC and MSRB) is an independent full-service broker dealer and investment banking firm providing advice and execution on fundamental value and catalyst-driven situations through sales & trading, research and investment banking. Odeon is a full-service boutique broker/dealer to institutional clients and offers transparent, timely and complete services from origination through execution of experienced service that adds value in all market conditions. Odeon Capital Group LLC is headquartered in New York City. Visit www.odeoncap.com for more information.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005307/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}