NEW YORK & LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Vela Trading Technologies, a global leader in high performance trading and market data technology, announced that it has won the American Financial Technology Award for Best Third-Party Technology Vendor IT Team at a ceremony hosted by Waters magazine and WatersTechnology.com in New York yesterday.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005930/en/ 
Vela provides the breadth of coverage and depth of expertise demanded by today’s multi-asset, multi-region electronic trading environments. Its products and services are backed by an experienced global team of market data experts, technologists, and client services support professionals.
The AFTA awards recognize excellence in the deployment and management of financial technology within the asset management and investment banking communities. The Best Third-Party Technology Vendor IT Team award is a new category this year and has been presented to the Vela team who have illustrated collaboration, team work, innovative software development methods, and efficient delivery techniques while working closely with its capital markets clients to provide maximum value through the software and services.
Jennifer Nayar, CEO of Vela Trading Technologies, commented, “We are proud and honored to be the inaugural recipient of this award as it is a testament of our company’s focus on providing innovative products and working with clients to ensure the best possible experience in all interactions.” She continued, “Since our rebranding in June, the market has acknowledged Vela’s commitment to project delivery and managed services in cooperation with our clients and their requirements.”
Eric Sinclair, President, TMX Market Insights and Group Head of Information Services, TMX Group, said, “We congratulate Vela on winning the Best Third-Party Technology Vendor IT Team category. TMX had a very positive and successful experience working closely with their managed services team. As a result, we launched new data services for the protected markets to comply with the Canadian regulatory requirements. By leveraging the expertise of the Vela managed services team, TMX can focus on our core competencies and deliver cost-effective solutions to our clients.”
About Vela Trading Technologies
Vela (formerly SR Labs) is an independent global leader in high performance trading and market data technology. We provide the breadth of coverage and depth of expertise demanded by today’s multi-asset, multi-region electronic trading environment. Our clients benefit from white-glove global customer support and professional services from an experienced team comprised of seasoned financial services industry experts and cutting edge technologists.
Providing premier market data and trading technology, Vela improves time-to-market, lowers costs and eliminates complexity. Vela delivers products that empower our clients to focus on their core business strengths, leveraging key trading infrastructure solutions via our technology, expertise and experience.
For more information, please visit us at velatradingtech.com. Follow us on Twitter @vela_tt.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005930/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005930/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}