DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Internet of Things (IoT) Healthcare Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2020" report to their offering.
The global IoT in healthcare market accounted for revenue of $24,666.7 million in 2014, and it is expected to grow with a CAGR of 37.6% during 2015 - 2020. Among the various components, the medical device segment dominated, with 44.1% share in 2014, the global IoT in healthcare market. The global IoT in healthcare market is growing at a significant growth rate, due to increasing demand for advanced healthcare information system, and growing prevalence of chronic and lifestyle associated diseases.
The IoT applications in healthcare, such as telemedicine, medication management, clinical operations and workflow management, inpatient monitoring, helps in compiling services related to diagnosis, treatment, care, and rehabilitation. They improve communication between patients and healthcare providers, in order to reduce medication errors, and provide better coordinated care.
Some of the key companies operating in the global IoT in healthcare market include Medtronic Plc., Koninklijke Philips N.V., General Electric Company, Qualcomm Incorporated, Honeywell Life Care Solutions, SAP SE, Stanley Black & Decker Inc., International Business Machine (IBM) Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Cerner Corporation, Diabetizer Ltd. & Co. KG, Proteus Digital Health Inc., AdhereTech Inc., and fPhysIQ Inc.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope And Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Regulatory Standards For Healthcare Iot & Alliances
5. Global Iot Healthcare Market Size And Forecast (2011-2020)
6. Global Iot Healthcare Market, By Component
7. Global Iot Healthcare Market, By Connectivity Technology
8. Global Iot Healthcare Market, By End User
9. Global Iot Healthcare Market, By Application
10. Global Iot Healthcare Market, By Geography
11. Porter's Five Forces Of Competitive Position Analysis
12. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
13 Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/ztpf83/global_internet

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005943/en/