STOCKHOLM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Bactiguard Holding AB (STO:BACTIB)
The call option program established by the main shareholders and aimed at key individuals in Bactiguard, matured on 30 November 2016. During the exercise period, a total of 688 000 B shares were acquired, corresponding to 2.07 percent of the capital and 0.99 percent of the votes, reducing the holdings of the main shareholders accordingly.
In 2012, the main shareholders of Bactiguard, Christian Kinch and Thomas von Koch, set up a call option program related to their holdings of B shares in Bactiguard. The program was aimed at senior executives and key employees in Bactiguard, who by exercising the options had a right to acquire shares from the main shareholders in the period between 15 and 30 November, 2016.
During the exercise period, a total of 688 000 B shares were acquired through the call option program, corresponding to 2.07 percent of the capital and 0.99 percent of the votes, thus reducing the holdings of the main shareholders accordingly.
After completion of the call option program, the two main shareholders each own shares corresponding to 28.3 percent of the capital and 39.6 percent of the votes in the company.
This information is information that Bactiguard Holding AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 08:00 CET on December 1, 2016.
About Bactiguard
Bactiguard is a Swedish medtech company with a mission of preventing healthcare associated infections, reducing the use of antibiotics and saving lives by developing and supplying infection prevention solutions for the healthcare industry. The company’s patented coating prevents healthcare associated infections by reducing bacterial adhesion and growth on medical devices. Bactiguard®-coated urinary catheters are market leading in the US and Japan, and in recent years the company has developed its own product portfolio of catheters for the urinary and respiratory tract and the blood stream. Bactiguard is currently in a strong expansion phase, focused on new markets in the Europe, Middle East, Asia, South America and Southern Africa. The company has market presence in some 50 countries and has about 60 employees. Its headquarters is located in Stockholm and production facilities in Sweden and Malaysia. Bactiguard is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Read more about Bactiguard at www.bactiguard.com
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006537/en/