LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
RagingWire Data Centers, the nation’s premier data center provider and an NTT Communications company, became the first data center colocation company to offer a real life and true stereoscopic 3D virtual reality (VR) tour of a data center that is user-guided and non-linear. RagingWire’s new interactive tour allows users to virtually experience the award winning RagingWire Sacramento CA3 Data Center. The CA3 virtual reality app debuted at the Gartner Data Center, Infrastructure and Operations Management Conference being held in Las Vegas from December 5-8, 2016. The 360-degree web application is available on the web at www.RagingWire.com/ca3-vr.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005078/en/ 
“Unlike traditional virtual tours that use animation and computer renderings, or 360-degree videos made with static individual scenes, RagingWire’s new ‘Real Life 3D’ VR tour offers the depth and space of the actual data center and gives users complete control over their exploration of the environment,” explained James Leach, Vice President of Marketing at RagingWire. “With this new VR application, users can move at their own pace and see the areas of the facility that matter the most to them from different angles that standard linear tours can’t provide.”
Using a virtual reality headset, the Real Life 3D tour allows users to experience the data center in 360 degrees as a real, continuous, and virtual scene. Alternatively, RagingWire’s web-based 360-degree interactive video tour provides a true sense of place by moving up, down, and all around for a unique user-driven experience on a desktop, tablet, or mobile device.
Leach continued, “While onsite tours have traditionally been a requirement for data center buyers, we believe the quality of RagingWire’s new VR tour and web-based 360-degree tour can make onsite tours optional, streamlining due diligence and saving time and expense. It’s taking data center shopping to a whole new level, and we think customers are going to love it.”
RagingWire’s Sacramento CA3 Data Center located in seismically-safe Sacramento, California offers the lowest cost data center power in California, and is just a 90-minute drive from the Bay Area. CA3 is ideal for cloud providers, software companies, and enterprises that need a West Coast data center footprint that is cost-effective, low-risk and can support large footprint deployments as well as multi-rack cages with room to grow.
The 180,000 sq. ft. CA3 Data Center with 14 megawatts of critical IT load is fully integrated with the CA1 and CA2 data centers totaling 680,000 sq. ft. of data center space and 52.7 megawatts of high density power. Across all of its data centers, RagingWire offers a 100% availability SLA, 24x7 onsite support, multi-layered security systems with onsite security officers and proven operational procedures for delivering superior performance.
About RagingWire Data Centers
RagingWire Data Centers designs, builds, and operates mission critical data centers that deliver 100% availability, high-density power, flexible configurations, carrier neutral connectivity, and superior customer service. The company has 97 MW of critical IT load spread across 1.2 million square feet of data center infrastructure in Northern California, Ashburn, Virginia, and Dallas, Texas, with significant growth plans in these locations and other top North American data center markets. As part of the NTT Communications group, RagingWire is one of the largest wholesale data center providers in the world with a global network of 140 data centers operated by NTT Communications under the Nexcenter™ brand and one of the most financially strong companies in the data center industry. For more information visit www.ragingwire.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005078/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005078/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}