COLUMBUS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Members of all Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (Anthem) Medicare Advantage (MA) plans in Ohio will now have access to The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center and its facilities as in-network providers.
The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center includes University Hospital, University Hospital East, The Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center – Arthur G. James Cancer Hospital and Richard J. Solove Research Institute, Ross Heart Hospital, Brain and Spine Hospital, Harding Hospital and Dodd Hall Rehabilitation Hospital. Together, these hospitals have more than 1,300 beds serving nearly 59,360 patients annually. Ohio State Wexner Medical Center has led the region for 24 years in U.S. News & World Report’s “America's Best Hospitals” rankings.
These facilities will now be in network for all Anthem MediBlue MA plans, including Essential (HMO), Dual Advantage (HMO SNP), Plus (HMO), Access (PPO), Access Enhanced (PPO), Access Core (Regional PPO) and Access (Regional PPO).
“Ohio State Wexner Medical Center has a longstanding reputation in the region for superior patient care, quality outcomes and patient safety,” said David McNichols, president of Medicare products for Anthem’s central region. “We are very excited that its facilities are now available in our network as part of our overall mission of providing our members with access to affordable, high-quality care.”
For more information about Anthem Medicare plans, visit www.anthem.com or call (855) 866-4242.
Anthem is a PPO plan, an HMO plan and a PDP plan with a Medicare contract. Enrollment in Anthem depends on contract renewal. The provider network may change at any time. You will receive notice when necessary.
This plan is available to anyone who has both Medical Assistance from the State and Medicare. Premiums, co-pays, co-insurance and deductibles may vary based on the level of Extra Help you receive. Please contact the plan for further details.
About Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield is the trade name of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc., an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. ANTHEM is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc. The Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and symbols are registered marks of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. Additional information about Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield in Ohio is available at www.anthem.com. Also follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/AnthemPR_OH or on Facebook at www.facebook.com/AskAnthem.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005744/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}