CENTENNIAL, Colo. & NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Bow Tie Cinemas has signed on to become National CineMedia (NCM)’s newest affiliate.
Beginning in the first quarter of 2017 Bow Tie’s 43 theaters with 271 screens in CO, CT, MD, NJ, NY & VA will become part of America’s Movie Network. These additions to NCM’s theater network, already the largest in the U.S., also gives NCM significantly enhanced coverage in the Tri-state area (NY, NJ & CT), with 37 Bow Tie theaters and 212 screens in the New York DMA alone. Bow Tie Cinemas is the oldest theater circuit in North America and is currently one of America’s fifteen largest exhibitors, with approximately seven million attendees projected for 2017.
The deal is the first win for NCM’s new Affiliate Partnerships team, which is dedicated to serving the needs of its more than 40 movie theater affiliates nationwide along with NCM founding member theater circuits AMC, Cinemark and Regal Entertainment Group.
“It’s an honor to have Bow Tie join our network, with their top-notch theaters ranging from luxury and megaplex cinemas to art houses and neighborhood theaters,” said Cliff Marks, president of NCM. “Advertisers will really be able to benefit from our increased presence in the largest market in the country, and it’s great that so many more of our Madison Avenue clients will now be able to enjoy NCM’s FirstLook pre-show in their local movie theater.”
“We are looking forward to a successful and productive partnership with NCM,” states Ben Moss, CEO of Bow Tie Cinemas. “With our diverse collection of theaters our consumer reach and advertising capabilities will be further enhanced by joining NCM’s robust network.”
As part of NCM’s national theater network, Bow Tie Cinemas will benefit from the industry leader’s many cinema advertising innovations, including partnerships with Audience Entertainment and TimePlay; NCM’s Cinema Audience Targeting Optimizer (CATO); NCM’s new Data Management Platform (DMP), which brings cinema into the world of big data; and NCM’s Cinema Accelerator, which re-engages moviegoers on mobile phones, social media, and online.
As Bow Tie introduces luxury recliner theaters complete with elevated food and full bar service in some of their strongest markets in 2017, NCM’s highly engaging FirstLook pre-show and Lobby Entertainment Network will give moviegoers even more reasons to arrive earlier and enjoy a great entertainment experience.
Stacie Tursi, NCM’s senior vice president of Affiliate Partnerships, also noted that, “As we increasingly do business in the national Spot marketplace through STRATA and other media buying systems, Bow Tie’s strength in the New York DMA is a terrific complement to our network and makes cinema an even more exciting option for agencies looking to reach local movie audiences along with their local Spot TV buys.”
About Bow Tie Cinemas
Bow Tie Cinemas (“Bow Tie”) is a four-generation, family-owned company. Founded in 1900 by vaudeville impresario B.S. Moss, the company is the oldest theater circuit in North America and is currently one of America’s fifteen largest exhibitors. Bow Tie Cinemas operates 271 screens at 43 locations in six states. For more information, visit www.bowtiecinemas.com.
About National CineMedia (NCM)
National CineMedia (NCM) is America's Movie Network. As the #1 weekend network in the U.S., NCM is the connector between brands and movie audiences. More than 700 million moviegoers annually attend theaters that are currently under contract to present NCM’s FirstLook pre-show in over 40 leading national and regional theater circuits including AMC Entertainment Inc. (AMC), Cinemark Holdings, Inc. (CNK) and Regal Entertainment Group (RGC). NCM’s cinema advertising network offers broad reach and unparalleled audience engagement with nearly 20,500 screens in over 1,600 theaters in 187 Designated Market Areas® (49 of the top 50). NCM Digital goes beyond the big screen, extending in-theater campaigns into online and mobile marketing programs to reach entertainment audiences. National CineMedia, Inc. (NCMI) owns a 43.6% interest in, and is the managing member of, National CineMedia, LLC. For more information, visit www.ncm.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005951/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}