CRANBURY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AmeriHealth New Jersey Vice President of Consumer Markets and Product Development, Ryan Petrizzi, will visit Chicago this week to speak at America’s Health Insurance Plans’ (AHIP) 2016 Consumer Experience and Digital Health Forum.
The program creates a space for decision makers in the health insurance industry to explore new digital health technologies and customer experience strategies that have the potential to better engage consumers, address their health needs, and deliver health care in new, efficient ways.
Petrizzi will present and respond to questions during the session “Nailing the Basics of Consumer Experience.” With more control over their health care than ever before, consumers need ready access to clear, accurate and easy-to-understand information. Petrizzi will discuss how health insurance has been trying to match the level of service expected from other traditionally consumer-driven industries, current strategies in place to get there, and what to imagine for the future.
For more information, visit ahip.org.
About AmeriHealth New Jersey
AmeriHealth New Jersey* is dedicated to enabling the people of New Jersey to improve their health and well-being while providing them access to affordable, quality care. Exclusively focused on the state of New Jersey, we offer one of the largest provider networks in the state, as well as access to hospitals and doctors across the nation. Our members also have access to our innovative Commit2Wellness programs. Whether you are an individual, a small- or mid-sized business, a municipality, self-funded group, or board of education, we can provide you with a health insurance plan that best meets your needs. Named one of the Best Places to Work for the past five years, AmeriHealth New Jersey is located in Cranbury, NJ. For more information visit amerihealthnj.com.
*AmeriHealth Insurance Company of New Jersey | AmeriHealth HMO, Inc.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005982/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}