FOLSOM, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Rackwise, Inc. (RACK) (the "Company"), a leading developer of data center infrastructure management ("DCIM") software and service solutions, today announced that the American Cancer Society, the largest volunteer health organization and investor in cancer research, has chosen Rackwise DCiM X™ to help them manage critical enterprise information technology (“IT”) infrastructure environment.
To better support its leverage of technology as relates to its business and corresponding IT infrastructure, the American Cancer Society cited enhanced visibility into data center asset and resource tracking, management and control among as priority objectives of its present and prospective DCIM strategies. In reviewing products currently available, the Society determined the advanced reporting capabilities and other features and functionalities of the Rackwise DCiM X™ offering to be the superior solution, yielding enhanced insight and control necessary to fulfill its responsibilities to its business. Additionally, the visibility and control available with Rackwise DCiM X™ enables the American Cancer Society to evolve its internal and co-located IT infrastructure more cost-effectively, utilizing the reporting and modeling capabilities inherent in the Rackwise® solution.
Blake Sanders, Interim Chief Information Officer, Vice President Architecture and Data Management for American Cancer Society commented, “the Society’s growth continues to push the need to expand and optimize our investment in IT. Our DCIM strategies include extending the lives of our current data centers by maximizing financial and operational efficiencies while we analyze and plan for additional IT resources. Clear visibility into our existing IT asset inventories and our ability to track and model them is essential to implementing these strategies, as is our ability to efficiently monitor, track and manage our power utilization. We believe that Rackwise DCiM X offers the features and functionalities and robust reporting subsystem to enable us to cost-effectively manage our present operations as well as plan and deploy requisite additional IT infrastructure.”
Mr. Guy A. Archbold, Chief Executive Officer, Rackwise, Inc., added, “We are delighted that the American Cancer Society, our nation’s largest and most prestigious volunteer health organization and globally recognized investor in cancer research, has chosen to utilize Rackwise DCiM X™ to operationally support its data centers, drive down its costs while maintaining a stable, secure yet highly flexible IT infrastructure. Our Rackwise DCiM X™ solution, with its visualized inventory coupled with an extensive reporting subsystem and other enhanced features and functionalities, provides the Society the critical decision support tools and metrics essential to efficiently manage and operate its computing infrastructure while maximizing cost and operational efficiencies. This deployment of the Rackwise DCiM X™ software demonstrates that our innovative solution is essential in maximizing existing IT resources and cost-effectively planning for expansions and additions across the computing infrastructure, enabling customers to achieve their reliability goals, discover hidden capacity, and optimize investments in their IT infrastructure to support business growth.”
About the American Cancer Society.
The American Cancer Society is a global grassroots force of more than three million volunteers saving lives and fighting for every birthday threatened by every cancer in every community. As the largest voluntary health organization, the Society's efforts have contributed to a 20 percent decline in cancer death rates in the U.S. since 1991, and a 50 percent drop in smoking rates. Thanks in part to the Society’s progress, nearly 14 million Americans who have had cancer and countless more who have avoided it will celebrate more birthdays this year. The American Cancer Society is determined to finish the fight against cancer, and is finding cures as the nation’s largest private, not-for-profit investor in cancer research, ensuring people facing cancer have the help they need and continuing the fight for access to quality health care, lifesaving screenings, clean air, and more. For more information, visit cancer.org.
About Rackwise, Inc.
Rackwise, Inc. (RACK.OB) is a leader in software development and marketing within the growing data center infrastructure management (“DCIM”) market for IT infrastructure tracking, monitoring, modeling, and management. The Company’s flagship product, Rackwise DCiM X™, incorporates open architecture designs into a vendor agnostic platform affording IT professionals maximum flexibility for efficient integration in any computing environment. The Rackwise DCiM X™ offering provides features and functionalities to assure reliability, identify hidden capacity, and improve efficiencies resulting in accelerated returns on investments through significantly optimized data center facilities and IT infrastructures.
Rackwise DCiM X™ integrates device level, real-time monitoring with advanced modeling, reporting, analytics and other critical capabilities, enabling clients to more effectively manage today’s high density computing configurations and virtualized data centers, mitigate risks associated with cascading faults and other potential inefficiencies within the infrastructure, and facilitate progress to more sustainable “green” data centers. Rackwise® products and services are used by over 150 enterprises worldwide. For more information, visit www.rackwise.com.
Rackwise®, DCM and DCiM X are trademarks of Rackwise, Inc. Other designated trademarks and brands mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.
Safe Harbor Statement
Any statements contained in this press release that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations, but are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties relating to the availability of additional funding; and the Company’s business, product development, marketing and distribution plans and strategies. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in the Company’s filings with the SEC, including, the Company’s current reports on Form 8-K. The Company does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements.
View the press release here: American Cancer Society Chooses Rackwise DCIM X™ to Manage Its Data Centers.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006427/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}