SAN RAMON, Calif. & SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Five9, Inc. (FIVN), a leading provider of cloud software for the enterprise contact center market, has been named a Premier Telephony Partner of Zendesk, Inc., a multi-product company that builds software for better customer relationships. The expanded partnership combines the leading cloud contact center solution provided by Five9 with the advanced customer service platform provided by Zendesk. The joint solution allows enterprises to have personalized interactions with their customers, helping build strong customer relationships.
Five9 was selected as a Premier Telephony Partner by Zendesk based on the number of successful customers, the depth of integration with Zendesk Support, and overall quality of the customer experience. This recognizes the investment Five9 has made bringing together the Five9 Virtual Contact Center (VCC) and Zendesk Support, which enables a seamless user experience and empowers contact center agents to deliver robust customer care. The joint solution of Five9 and Zendesk delivers a turnkey, cloud-based contact center solution that is already being used by companies like SwimOutlet.com, an online swim shop. As a result of this selection, Zendesk and Five9 are deepening their investment in the joint customer experience from discovery, purchase, and implementation to ongoing success and support.
“Leveraging the integrated solution provided by Five9 and Zendesk has empowered our agents by giving them the tools and information they need to deliver a positive experience to our customers, which helps create brand loyalty. With this integration we have an improved platform and can offer greater capabilities to our agents located around the world, ” said Jaime Benes, VP Customer Experiences, SwimOutlet.com.
“We want every Zendesk customer to experience the benefits of integrated phone support,” said Ryan Nichols, Zendesk Talk General Manager. “The deep integration that Five9 has built with Zendesk Support is leading our joint customers to more productive agents, more informed managers, and most importantly, happier customers.”
“Five9 is committed to helping our customers deliver a great experience through engaged agents and personalized service. We’ve been impressed with the high level of customer satisfaction that Zendesk has achieved and we’re excited to partner with Zendesk to provide tremendous value with a tightly integrated, easy-to-use, comprehensive solution,” said Mike Burkland, President and CEO, Five9. “We’re also very happy with our joint go-to-market activities that are helping both companies to gain more exposure and win more deals.”
Additional Information:Five9/Zendesk Webinar: Increase Agent ProductivityDecember 13, 2016 at 10am PSTRegister Now
Learn more about the Five9 Virtual Contact Center, the latest in agent focused cloud contact center software from Five9.
Talk with us @Five9, LinkedIn, Facebook, Blog.
About Five9:
Five9 is a leading provider of cloud software for the enterprise contact center market, bringing the power of the cloud to thousands of customers and facilitating over three billion customer interactions annually. Since 2001, Five9 has led the cloud revolution in contact centers, helping organizations transition from legacy premise-based solutions to the cloud. Five9 provides businesses with cloud contact center software that is reliable, secure, compliant and scalable, which is designed to create exceptional customer experiences, increase agent productivity and deliver tangible business results. For more information visit www.five9.com.
About Zendesk:
Zendesk builds software for better customer relationships. It empowers organizations to improve customer engagement and better understand their customers. More than 87,000 paid customer accounts in over 150 countries and territories use Zendesk products. Based in San Francisco, Zendesk has operations in the United States, Europe, Asia, Australia, and South America. Learn more at www.zendesk.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005331/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}