DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Machine Condition Monitoring Equipment Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2022" report to their offering.
Machine condition monitoring equipment market has gained importance over the past few years, as the focus of companies on productivity and asset utilization has significantly increased. The increasing use of remote monitoring, growth in heating, ventilating and air conditioning market, increasing demand for smart factories, in addition to growing penetration of industrial internet of things (IoT) are driving the growth of the global machine condition monitoring equipment market.
The increasing usage of remote monitoring solutions with the help of internet of things (IoT) has spurred the growth of the global machine condition monitoring market. The remote monitoring solutions helps in the controlling of equipment located in the remote locations without the need of manually monitoring them. This saves man-power, times, and reduces the cost involved in the physical monitoring of machines installed in various industries. The advancement in internet of things (IoT) in machine conditioning is also driving the growth of the machine condition monitoring equipment market.
North America accounted for the largest share in the global machine condition monitoring equipment market, in terms of revenue in 2015. The North American machine condition monitoring equipment market is driven largely by the growing demand of condition monitoring from oil & gas, power and energy, end user segments.
Asia-Pacific along with other emerging countries of Latin America and Middle East are expected to be the faster growing markets of machine condition monitoring equipment during the forecast period.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Introduction
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Global Machine Condition Monitoring Equipment Market Size & Forecast (2012-2022)
5. Global Machine Condition Monitoring Equipment Market, By Geography
6. Competitive Analysis
7. Key Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
8. Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/ctg7dg/global_machine

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005693/en/