CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Nuveen, an operating division of TIAA Global Asset Management, today announced the Nuveen Real Estate Income Fund (NYSE: JRS) has declared its regular quarterly distribution. This fund represents just one of several Nuveen investment strategies designed for investors seeking diversified sources of cash flow to prepare for and sustain their retirement income and other cash flow needs. Information regarding the fund’s last 19(a) Quarterly Distribution Notice (as of August 31, 2016) is also included below. This informational notice provides further details on the sources of the fund’s distribution. The full text of this notice is also available on the Nuveen website via Distribution Source Estimates. For further information regarding fund distributions including earnings, undistributed net investment income, and notices please visit http://www.nuveen.com/cef.
The following dates apply to today's declaration for the Nuveen Real Estate Income Fund:
Quarterly Managed Distributions
The goal of the fund’s managed distribution program is to provide shareholders relatively consistent and predictable cash flow by systematically converting its expected long-term return potential into regular distributions. Potential distribution sources for regular distributions throughout the year include realized gains and return of capital, in addition to net investment income. If a distribution includes anything other than net investment income, the fund provides a notice of the best estimate of its distribution sources at that time which may be viewed at www.nuveen.com/CEFdistributions. These estimates may not match the final tax characterization contained in shareholders’ 1099-DIV forms after the end of the year.
Under a Managed Distribution policy, Nuveen closed-end funds seek to maintain a stable regular distribution amount that, over the long term, matches the fund’s total distributions paid to its total return. You should not draw any conclusions about a fund’s past or future investment performance from its current distribution rate or from the terms of its Managed Distribution Policy.
The following table provides estimates of the Fund’s distribution sources, reflecting year-to-date cumulative experience through the month-end prior to the latest distribution. The Fund attributes these estimates equally to each regular distribution throughout the year. Consequently, the estimated information as of the specified month-end shown below is for the current distribution, and also represents an updated estimate for all prior months in the year. The Fund may in certain periods distribute more than its income and net realized capital gains, although the Fund currently estimates that it has not done so for the fiscal year-to-date period. In such instances, a portion of the distribution may be a return of capital. A return of capital may occur, for example, when some or all of the money that you invested in the Fund is paid back to you. A return of capital distribution does not necessarily reflect the Fund’s investment performance and should not be confused with “yield” or “income.”
The amounts and sources of distributions reported in this 19(a) Notice are only estimates and are not being provided for tax reporting purposes. The actual amounts and sources of the amounts for tax reporting purposes will depend upon the Fund’s investment experience during the remainder of its fiscal year and may be subject to changes based on tax regulations. The Fund will send you a Form 1099-DIV for the calendar year that will tell you how to report these distributions for federal income tax purposes. More details about the Fund’s distributions and the basis for these estimates are available on www.nuveen.com/cef .
The following table provides information regarding JRS’ distributions and total return performance over various time periods. This information is intended to help you better understand whether returns for the specified time periods were sufficient to meet distributions.
Nuveen provides investment solutions designed to help secure the long-term goals of individual investors and the financial advisors who serve them. Through the expertise and capabilities of TIAA Global Asset Management’s high-caliber investment managers, Nuveen is committed to providing world-class consultative services and advice that align with client needs. Funds distributed by Nuveen Securities, LLC, a subsidiary of Nuveen Investments, Inc. Nuveen Investments is an operating division of TIAA Global Asset Management. For more information, please visit the Nuveen Investments website at www.nuveen.com.
* Nuveen does not provide tax advice; consult a professional tax advisor regarding your specific tax situation.
21254-INV-O-11/17

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006517/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwalignr {text-align: right !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadb1 {padding-bottom: 2.0px !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}