NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
MarketStream.live, a video-streaming platform offering live daily broadcasts to institutional and retail investors, is delivering unprecedented live market updates five times a day. The tailored video platform, which launched in October, offers real-time market information and reviews at regular daily intervals, inviting a new broadcast audience to understand these unique perspectives, real-world opportunities and cutting-edge strategies.
The future of branding is live online video. Past technology prohibited institutions from easily broadcasting, but the recent explosion of high-quality streaming has democratized rich media. Companies can use real-time online video to increase conversations, optimize brand confidence or simply reach out to their audiences in a more intimate and immediate way.
With an initial focus on market conditions, MarketStream.live makes it possible to help people identify and improve their natural approach to investing and trading. Since information in this industry is determined by speed and delivery, anything later than a few minutes is old news, potentially damaging trade performance.
“Throughout the years, I have created educational tutorials for financial clients, but by the time they were out, in some cases the platform or strategy would change,” said Matt Cimaglia, founder of MarketStream.live. “MarketStream.live offers a real-time solution. I want institutions to be able to connect with their retail investors who are looking to educate themselves on industry news and trends, so that they can then act on the knowledge we provide them with confidence.”
Founder Matt Cimaglia brings more than a decade of video-production experience and a sophisticated comprehension of the financial sector. MarketStream.live’s team of industry leaders understands the varying degrees of knowledge that each trader brings to the table, and is poised to tackle daily market challenges as featured guests on the platform.
As the online video-streaming industry evolves, so must the modern investor. MarketStream.live will be there every step of the way.
About MarketStream.live
MarketStream.live is a video-streaming platform providing live daily broadcasts to institutional and retail investors. The platform is a tailored video solution offering real-time market information and reviews. MarketStream.live makes it possible to help people identify and improve upon their natural approach to investing and trading. For more information, visit http://marketstream.live/.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005907/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}