VIRGINIA BEACH, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
As 2016 comes to a close GEICO reveals its plan to bring new job opportunities to Virginia and North Carolina in the New Year. Job seekers interested in a challenging and rewarding career need look no further.
GEICO's Virginia Beach office is recruiting new talent to join its expanding team of sales, service and claims associates. Auto damage adjuster positions are available at various locations throughout Virginia and North Carolina.
One of the company's accelerated leadership programs – the Management Development Program (MDP) – is also seeking recent college graduates interested in launching their career.
"As GEICO continues to grow in Virginia and North Carolina, it allows us to bring new job opportunities to the local communities," said John Pham, regional vice president. "If you have a passion for customer service, a strong attention to detail and work well in a fast-paced environment, we want to hear from you. This is an opportunity you don't want to miss out on. Qualified candidates are encouraged to visit GEICO's career page and apply today."
Prior insurance experience is not required. GEICO will provide those with a willingness to learn with all required training for associates to become licensed insurance professionals.
GEICO offers competitive starting salaries, a comprehensive benefits package, continuing education, tuition reimbursement, on-site college courses, career growth opportunities, community engagement opportunities and a friendly, supportive workplace. To learn more about career opportunities and to submit an application, visit https://www.geico.com/careers/office-locations/virginia-virginia-beach/.
GEICO (Government Employees Insurance Company) is a member of the Berkshire Hathaway family of companies and is the second-largest private passenger auto insurance company in the United States. GEICO, which was founded in 1936, provides millions of auto insurance quotes to U.S. drivers annually. The company is pleased to serve more than 14 million private passenger customers, insuring more than 23 million vehicles (auto & cycle).
Using GEICO’s online service center, policyholders can purchase policies, make policy changes, report claims and print insurance ID cards. Policyholders can also connect to GEICO through the GEICO App, reach a representative over the phone or visit a GEICO local agent.
For more information, go to www.geico.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005875/en/