PARIS & HERNDON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
InfoVista, the leading provider of network performance orchestration solutions for a better connected and collaborative world, today announced updates to its RF planning and optimization software, Planet 6.1. The new release allows wireless operators to take advantage of next-generation network deployments by enabling accurate planning and optimization of both IoT and 5G networks.
For Internet of Things (IoT) networks, Planet 6.1 supports Low Power Wide Area (LPWA) technologies such as Sigfox and LoRa, so operators can evaluate the best fit for their technology requirements and take advantage of the 16 billion global IoT devices predicted to exist by 20211.
Among other techniques, operators can simulate an operational network and dimension it to allow for accurate forecasts, plan for spectrum issues and site locations with coverage maps, and account for customer segmentation with demand forecasting and geographic information system (GIS) capabilities. These capabilities allow operators to design their IoT deployment strategy throughout the entire radio access network lifecycle.
For 5G networks, Planet 6.1 supports millimeter wave (mmW) propagation and 3D modeling that accommodate frequencies up to 100 GHz. As such, with support for multiple preliminary dimensioning use cases for 5G, Planet 6.1 grants network operators and equipment vendors the confidence that their 5G networks will be technically ready when it comes time to deploy them.
Supporting Quote:
“With the explosion of IoT and new mobile applications and services, the potential of IoT and 5G technologies is tremendous,” said James Morrison, SVP, communications service provider products and markets, InfoVista. “To leverage this potential, operators must have a well-defined strategy and plan for their network infrastructure. With Planet 6.1, operators can safely and strategically take advantage of innovative technologies like IoT, 5G and others with the least amount of obstacles standing in their way.”
Resources:
About InfoVistaInfoVista is the leading provider of cost-effective network performance orchestration solutions for a better connected and collaborative world. Our award-winning solutions empower communications service providers and large enterprises to ensure a high-quality user experience by achieving optimal network performance and guaranteeing business-critical application performance. InfoVista’s expertise and innovations provide a new level of actionable network, application and customer intelligence, visibility and control across all services, all technologies, and all domains of both the fixed and mobile networks. Using our solutions, eighty percent of the world's largest service providers and leading global enterprises deliver high-performing and differentiated services, plan and optimize networks to match application and service demands, and streamline network operations while keeping total cost of ownership as low as possible. For more information, please visit www.infovista.com.
1 Ericsson, Ericsson Mobility Report: On The Pulse of the Networked Society. Published: June 2016

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005242/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}