ÖSTERSUND, Sweden--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Skanska (SKAB.ST) has signed a contract with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) to renovate their lab and office space in Upper Providence, Pennsylvania, USA. The contract is worth USD 45M, about SEK 380M, which will be included in the order bookings for Skanska USA Building in the fourth quarter 2016.
The project includes the demolition of four floors of existing laboratories and new build out of about 9,300 square meters of SMART Lab space, supporting GSK R&D’s Upper Providence facility investments. This project follows the successful completion of a similar renovation completed in September 2016.
Construction is scheduled to start in December 2016 and to be completed in October 2017.
Skanska USA is one of the leading development and construction companies in the country, consisting of four business units: Skanska USA Building, which specializes in building construction; Skanska USA Civil, specialized in civil infrastructure; Skanska Infrastructure Development, which develops public-private partnerships; and Skanska USA Commercial Development, which develops commercial projects in select U.S. markets. Headquartered in New York, Skanska USA has more than 10,000 employees and its 2015 revenues were SEK 54.5 billion.
This and previous releases can also be found at www.skanska.com
The information provided herein is such as Skanska AB is obligated to disclose pursuant to the EU market securities act (EU) no. 596/2014.
Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project development companies, focused on selected home markets in the Nordic region, other European countries and North America. Supported by global trends in urbanization and demographics, and by being at the forefront in sustainability, Skanska offers competitive solutions for both simple and the most complex assignments, helping to build a sustainable future for customers and communities. The Group currently has 43,100 employees in selected home markets in Europe and North America. Skanska's sales in 2015 totaled SEK 155 billion.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006454/en/