DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Self Service Technology Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2022" report to their offering.
Self-service technologies are interfaces which allow the consumers to avail various services independent of service employee involvement. Customers prefer to use these technologies as they require fast service and hassle free transactions. The demand for self-service machines and automated devices, wireless communication, technology advancements and remote management are some of the notable factors driving the self-service technology market. Increase in security threats, such as card skimming and information hacking, is one of the major restraining factors for the market growth.
The global self-service technology market is segmented into Vending Machine, ATM and Kiosks. These types are further categorized into machine type and solution type. The solution type comprises of market by deployment and managed services. Vending Machine market is segmented into Beverage, Candy, Snack, Gumball, Cigarette and Specialized vending machines. The demand for vending machines has increased during the decade and with the introduction of cashless payment systems and smart vending technology solutions, it has gained momentum for its usage on a large scale.
Major players operating in the self-service technology market are majorly focusing on product launch strategies. The key players highlighted in the report include NCR Corporation, Diebold Inc., Fujitsu Limited, Azkoyen Group, Kiosk Information Systems Inc., Maas International B.V., IBM Corporation, Hess Cash Systems GmbH & Co. KG, Glory Limited and Crane Co.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Global Self Service Technology Market Size And Forecast (2012-2022)
5. Global Vending Machine Market (2012-2022)
6. Global ATM Market (2012-2022)
7. Global Kiosk Market (2012-2022)
8. Self Service Technology Market, By Geography (2012-2022)
9. Competitive Analysis
10. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
11. Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/gp37hn/global_self.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005891/en/