DETROIT--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
DMC Heart Hospital was honored for exemplary work in the 2016 CardioVascular Advertising Awards (CVAA) with a gold award for its radio advertisement titled “Clotbusters.” The CVAA is the nation’s premier advertising awards program that exclusively recognizes outstanding quality for healthcare marketing in the cardiac and vascular sectors.
The ad engages the listener in recognizing the symptoms and understanding the threat of pulmonary embolism, a blockage of the arteries delivering blood to the heart. The Centers for Disease Control estimates suggest that between 60,000 and 100,000 Americans die of pulmonary embolism annually, with 10 to 30 percent dying within one month of diagnosis.
The six-story DMC Heart Hospital opened in 2014, part of an ongoing wave of new construction and investment in midtown Detroit. Adjacent to DMC Harper University Hospital, DMC Heart Hospital is dedicated to advanced cardiac care, including outpatient cardiac catheterization labs, diagnostic testing and clinics for atrial fibrillation and heart failure.
“At DMC Heart Hospital, we feel it’s crucial we communicate within our communities what services are available to help treat both cardiac and vascular disease – especially complex conditions like Pulmonary Embolism,” says DMC Heart Hospital President Dr. Theodore Schreiber. “We’re honored for this recognition of the hard work and dedication our team does to educate our community in the continued fight against cardiovascular disease.”
“It was a privilege to have DMC Heart Hospital participate in this elite and prestigious awards program," said Melinda Lucas, CVAA Program Coordinator. "DMC Heart Hospital exceeded all expectations for quality and excellence in CardioVascular Communications this year.”
All entries in the CVA Awards were reviewed and judged by a diverse panel of healthcare marketing experts.
In order to be recognized with a gold award in the CVA Awards, the entry must score at or above 95 in the scoring process, placing DMC Heart Hospital’s entry in the top five percent of the nation.
All winners are posted on the CVA Awards website, www.CVAAwards.com.
About the Detroit Medical Center, www.dmc.org
Detroit Medical Center includes DMC Children’s Hospital of Michigan, DMC Detroit Receiving Hospital, DMC Harper University Hospital, DMC Heart Hospital, DMC Huron Valley-Sinai Hospital, DMC Hutzel Women’s Hospital, DMC Rehabilitation Institute of Michigan, and DMC Sinai-Grace Hospital. Detroit Medical Center is a leading regional healthcare system with a mission of excellence in clinical care, research and medical education.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006266/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}