HERNDON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
DLT Solutions, an award-winning technology partner to the public sector, today announced the appointment of David Rubal as the company’s first chief technologist for data and analytics. In the role, Rubal will oversee DLT’s data analytics, data science, big data and business intelligence portfolio. Rubal brings over 35 years of IT and data science experience to the role, which was created to support emerging public sector data analytics needs.
As the expansion of the Internet of Things and the digitization of government increases the amount of data available to the public sector, proper analysis can advance organizational missions, whether improving government services delivery, better supporting healthcare services, or detecting and stopping cyber threats. DLT is dedicated to identifying technology gaps in the public sector and recognizes the need to support these possibilities with a greater range of innovative data analytics solutions. Rubal brings the expertise and talent that will empower government to solve analytics challenges.
“DLT is committed to meeting the needs of our public sector customers. With a shortage of data scientists and a wealth of information, organizations need technologies that allow them to better leverage data to cut costs, improve efficiencies or even save lives,” said Alan Marc Smith, president and CEO, DLT. “That’s why we created this role, and selected David to lead the data and analytics practice for DLT’s customers.”
Prior to joining DLT, Rubal served in senior leadership roles at Oracle, Blue Coat Systems, Tableau Software, EMC, and Cisco, among others. He is the principal co-author of the 2009 White House Office of Management and Budget report “Planning Guide/Roadmap Toward IPv6 Adoption within the U.S. Government” and serves as the Data Analytics Industry Advisory Board Member at the George Mason University Volgenau School of Engineering.
“DLT is a leader in connecting software innovators with the public sector, helping organizations realize the potential of their data,” said Rubal. “New technologies that leverage artificial intelligence and machine learning can organize and interpret data to achieve organizational missions from identifying health trends to revealing patterns that can better predict natural disasters. In my new role, I see great opportunity to expand these possibilities, acting as a partner and advisor to the public sector.”
For 25 years DLT Solutions has forecasted tomorrow’s government technology needs, turning challenges into opportunities for growth through software innovation. Learn more at: http://www.dlt.com.
About DLT Solutions
DLT is a leading technology partner to the federal, state and local government, education, utilities and healthcare markets. For more than 25 years, the company’s dedication to helping the public sector make smart technology choices and simplify their technology procurements ensures its customers have the best options for Cybersecurity, Cloud, Application Lifecycle, Digital Design, IT Consolidation and IT Management solutions. The DLT advantage includes strategic partnerships with industry leading and emerging technology companies - including Amazon Web Services, Autodesk, Dell Software, Google, Informatica, Oracle, Red Hat, SolarWinds, Symantec and Veritas - whose products and services can be easily procured through DLT by leveraging its broad portfolio of government IT contracts including, GSA, SEWP V, U.S. Communities and Texas DIR. To learn more, visit DLT’s Resource Center, call 800.262.4358 or email sales@dlt.com. Also on LinkedIn and Twitter (@DLTSolutions).

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005421/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}