AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the following Lafayette Parish School Board, Louisiana's (LPSB or the board) ratings at 'AA':
$17.8 million public school refunding bonds, series 2008;
Issuer-Default Rating (IDR).
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The bonds are special and limited obligations payable from a first lien on a 1% sales and use tax levied in the parish. The sales tax is an irrevocable pledge approved by voters in 1965. Bondholders also benefit from a cash-funded debt service reserve equal to maximum annual debt service (MADS).
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The board's financial position remains sound despite challenges from economically-induced sales tax declines and enrolment losses to competing charter schools in the parish. Management points to a number of additional cost-cutting measures at their disposal if pressures continue. Debt and pension obligations are very manageable, and the board may approach voters as early as spring 2017 for bonding authority to address facility needs.
The 'AA' rating on the sales tax bonds reflect solid assessments for both growth prospects and resilience, and the fact that the rating is capped at the board's IDR due to the use of surplus receipts for operations. The near term growth prospects for the 1% pledged sales tax are soft but should improve with the eventual recovery in oil and gas and the continued diversification and growth of the area economy.
Economic Resource Base
Lafayette Parish is located in south central Louisiana and has an estimated 2015 population of around 240,000. A regional commercial hub, Lafayette has long served as a headquarters for oil and gas service companies. The ongoing energy sector weakness has dampened economic activity in the parish, offset to a degree by gains in other sectors -- primarily healthcare and technology.
Revenue Framework: 'a' factor assessment
The board enjoyed healthy operating revenue gains over the past decade, with energy sector expansion fueling increases over the first part of this period and recent economic diversification offsetting to a degree weakness in the energy sector since 2014. The board has little ability to independently increase revenues, as any property or sales tax increase must receive voter approval.
Expenditure Framework: 'aa' factor assessment
Given the expectation for moderate enrollment increases over the near to intermediate term, operating expenses should generally track revenue growth going forward. Combined debt and retiree benefit payments are a manageable part of the overall expenditure framework.
Long-Term Liability Burden: 'aaa' factor assessment
Overall debt and the board's share of its employee pension program are affordable at less than 10% of estimated parish total personal income
Operating Performance: 'aaa' factor assessment
Despite recent spending adjustments to counter sales tax revenue declines, the board retains sufficient flexibility which, combined with healthy reserves, produce exceptionally strong gap closing capacity. Based on the board's past performance Fitch expects management to promptly restore any flexibility lost during periods of economic weakness.
Sound Debt Service Coverage and Cushion
Current MADS coverage is very healthy at more than 8.0x and should remain sound through an economic downturn, given the use of surplus sales tax revenues revenues for operations.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Erosion of Financial Flexibility: Continued economic volatility and charter competition would further pressure board revenues. Management's inability to respond promptly with expenditure modifications would erode the board's reserve cushion and overall flexibility, putting downward pressure on the rating.
Weakened Coverage: While not expected, sizable additional leveraging combined with deteriorating sales tax collections would weaken debt service coverage and pressure the current rating.
CREDIT PROFILE
Lafayette's historical reliance on the energy sector has produced both volatility and concentration risk. However, recent diversification into healthcare and technology is buffering some of the negative economic impact from a weak oil and gas industry. The city serves as a regional commercial hub, which offers both a measure of stability and decent growth prospects.
Revenue Framework
The state's minimum foundation program designates combined state and local per pupil funding for each parish in the state. The board's primary operating revenues include state funding (44% of fiscal 2015 general fund revenues), followed by local sales (30%) and property (25%) tax revenues. The use of sales tax receipts for operations creates vulnerability given the area's reliance on the historically volatile energy sector.
Average annual revenue gains for the 10-year period ending in fiscal 2015 of 4.4% bettered both U.S. economic performance and inflation, as energy sector gains and local economic diversification offset later energy sector weakness. Prospects for the near term are modest given current oil and gas industry pressures, but continued diversification of the area economy and Lafayette's role as a regional commercial center suggest brighter long-term growth potential.
The board's legal ability to raise revenues is extremely limited, as any new property tax millage or sales tax, or an increase in an existing tax rate, must be approved by voters.
Expenditure Framework
Spending patterns for the board are typical for a school district -- instruction accounted for nearly 2/3 of fiscal 2015 general fund outlays, with operations and administration comprising the majority of other spending.
Enrollment gains at LPSB for the near term are expected to be modest given the current economic environment and competition from several charter schools in the parish. As such, spending pressures are expected to be manageable and to generally track revenue gains over the forecast period.
Carrying costs (combined debt, pension and retiree healthcare) for fiscal 2015 were a moderately high 20.2% of governmental spending. The board benefits from ample control over headcount and wages, and states it retains a variety of spending reduction measures that can be employed if necessary.
Long-Term Liability Burden
The board has issues both property tax debt and sales tax debt to finance capital improvements, and also has issued certificates of indebtedness and other instruments backed by general fund revenues. The debt burden is moderate, and the pace of amortization is fairly rapid with nearly 70% retired in ten years.
District employees participate in one of several state-sponsored pension plans. The combined ratio of plans' assets to liabilities is 65%, reduced to an estimated 60% when a more conservative 7% rate of return assumption is used.
The board spends from roughly $6 million to $30 million annually on capital needs. Longer term facility needs are sizable at $300 million to $500 million, and management reports plans to issue roughly $140 million in debt in 2017 to address certain needs; they also are considering a return to voters next year for new millage authority for additional borrowing. The current rate of debt retirement should enable the board to fold in a moderate amount of new debt without materially increasing the debt burden.
Operating Performance
The current environment, characterized by energy sector weakness and ongoing charter school competition, is posing a significant challenge to the board's financial resilience. To date, results indicate management's responses are working. Financial reserves are healthy and increasing, and management reports various cost cutting measures still available in addition to the measures taken to date. The combination of remaining expenditure flexibility and a strong operating cushion should enable the board to successfully navigate the current uncertain economic climate.
Despite current revenue pressures, the board has managed to maintain spending levels with no deferral of required items. Pay/go capital spending continues at a pace consistent with historical trends, and full pension contributions are made.
Preliminary fiscal 2016 operating results indicate a small surplus and addition to reserves. For fiscal 2017, management has budgeted a 7% sales tax decline and has instituted a salary freeze and other expenditure reductions. The budgeted used of $5 million in reserves reflects a conservative budgeting approach; actual results typically outperform original budgetary forecasts.
Sales Tax Legal Provisions Standard
The legal provisions for the series 2008 bonds include an additional bonds test (ABT) of 2.0x and a cash-funded debt service reserve (calculated at MADS). The ABT is historical, taking the average of pledged sales tax collections for the prior two years. The flow of funds is standard, with any surplus pledged revenues used for operational expenses of the board. The 1% sales tax was authorized in 1965 and has no expiration date.
Solid Revenue Analysis Results
To evaluate the sensitivity of the pledged sales tax revenues to cyclical declines, Fitch considers both (1) the revenue sensitivity results produced by Fitch's analytical sensitivity tool (FAST) assuming a recessionary 1% decline in U.S. GDP, and (2) the largest cumulative decline in pledged revenues over the period covered by the sensitivity analysis (1999-2014). The FAST results generate a 4.0% sales tax revenue decline under the moderate recession scenario, and the largest consecutive decline was 10.1% in 2009-2010.
The pledged revenues have displayed minimal volatility over the past ten years but are currently experiencing a period of decline. The 10-year average annual growth rate from 2006-2015 was 3.4%. Fiscal 2015 revenues totaled $65.0 million, up 2.2% from the prior year and generating healthy 8.7 times (x) MADS coverage. The coverage calculation includes debt service on series 2010 parity bonds, currently outstanding in the amount of $4.4 million. The near term growth prospects for the 1% pledged sales tax are soft but should improve with the eventual recovery in oil and gas and the continued diversification and growth of the area economy.
Assuming the pledged revenues were leveraged to the 2.0x ABT, a severe revenue decline of 50% would still allow for payment of debt service; this cushion is healthy -- 12.5x the 3% revenue decline produced by FAST in a 1% GDP decline scenario and 5x the largest consecutive revenue decline. The board is not expected to leverage the pledged revenues to the ABT, as surplus revenues are a critical operating revenue source of the district. Assuming a moderate amount of additional leveraging to 7.5x MADS coverage, sales tax revenues could withstand a more than 85% drop and still generate 1x current MADS coverage. This cushion is more than 21x the 4% recessionary revenue dip produced by FAST and nearly 9x the largest consecutive revenue decline.
Fitch expects healthy debt service coverage and only moderate additional leveraging given the use of surplus pledged revenues for board operations. The rating on the sales tax bonds is capped at the board's 'AA' IDR given this fact.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
In addition to the sources of information identified in the applicable criteria specified below, this action was informed by information from Lumesis and InvestorTools.
Applicable Criteria
U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015653
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015653
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005948/en/