LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Symmetry Electronics, a global distributor specializing in the distribution of embedded semiconductor products, will be showcasing the latest Internet of Things (IoT)-enabling products and innovations at the 2016 Embedded Systems Conference (ESC), being held December 7-8, at the San Jose Convention Center in California. Digi International, Lattice Semiconductor, MultiTech, Silicon Labs, Silicon Motion, Silvertel and Telit, high level executives and factory technical experts will be on hand to discuss customer projects and how they can help get your designs moving forward quickly.
ESC is the industry’s largest, most comprehensive technical conference for embedded systems professionals in the U.S.
“ESC San Jose is being held at the same time as the BIOMEDevice conference which adds even more value to Symmetry and our exhibiting partners and we are looking forward to a great event,” said Gil Zaharoni, founder and CEO of Symmetry Electronics.
Symmetry and exhibiting partners will be showing exciting new offerings in booth 1515.
Digi International (Digi) is a leading global provider of mission-critical machine-to-machine (M2M) and Internet of Things (IoT) connectivity products and services.
Lattice Semiconductor provides smart connectivity solutions powered by our low power FPGA, video ASSP, 60 GHz millimeter wave, and IP products to the consumer, communications, industrial, computing, and automotive markets worldwide.
MultiTech designs, develops and manufactures communications equipment for the industrial Internet of Things – connecting physical assets to business processes to deliver enhanced value.
Silicon Labs is the leader in energy-friendly solutions for a smarter, more connected world. For nearly 20 years, Silicon Labs has created the silicon, software and tools that enable the world’s leading engineers to develop products that transform industries and improve lives.
Silicon Motion is the global leader in supplying NAND flash controllers for solid state storage devices.
Silvertel specializes in the design of low cost electronic modules to an extensive global customer base backed up by first class technical and application support.
Telit is the global leader in Internet of Things (IoT) enablement, offering the industry’s broadest portfolio of integrated products, platforms and services to support and enable IoT deployments from things to apps.
Symmetry Electronics is an authorized global semiconductor distributor offering technical support, sales and distribution of wireless and video technologies.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005400/en/