NEW YORK & PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
RenovaCare, Inc., (RCAR), developer of the patented CellMist™ and SkinGun™ technologies* for isolating and spraying a patient’s own stem cells onto burns and wounds for rapid self-healing, today announced that the company has bolstered its patent portfolio with the issuance of a United States patent for its novel SkinGun™ device. The United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted an additional 30-month extension for the patent, providing protection beyond the year 2035.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005236/en/ 
The issuance of the United States patent reinforces the company’s current patent protections in Germany.
“This formal intellectual property strengthens our competitive position in the marketplace and supports our long-standing conviction that our technology is a novel therapeutic medical device for isolating and spraying human stem cells on to serious burns and wounds,” said Thomas Bold, President and CEO of RenovaCare, Inc.
These RenovaCare patents provide exclusive rights for its SkinGun™ device, including the exclusion of other developers from making, copying, using, or selling the invention unless they have obtained a license to do so.
This announcement comes on the heels of world-leading expert in the isolation of specific stem cells ideal for spraying onto burns and wounds, Dr. Roger Esteban-Vives, joining the company as Director of Cell Sciences.
Independent test results conducted by one of the world’s largest university hospitals show that RenovaCare SkinGun™ achieves the ‘gold standard’ when it comes to viability for skin regeneration. Cell viability is essential to regenerating skin for burns, wounds, and cosmetic applications. Data confirmed that human skin stem cells sprayed with the company’s patented SkinGun™ maintained 97.3% viability.
*RenovaCare products are currently in development and are not available for sale in the United States.
About RenovaCare
RenovaCare, Inc. is developing first-of-its-kind autologous (self-donated) stem cell therapies for the regeneration of human organs. Its initial product under development targets the body’s largest organ, the skin. The company’s flagship technology, the CellMist™ System, uses its patented SkinGun™ to spray a liquid suspension of a patient’s stem cells – the CellMist™ Solution – onto wounds. RenovaCare is developing its CellMist™ System as a promising new alternative for patients suffering from burns, chronic and acute wounds, and scars. In the US alone, this $45 billion market is greater than the spending on high-blood pressure management, cholesterol treatments, and back pain therapeutics.
For additional information, please call Drew Danielson at: 888-398-0202 or visit:http://renovacareinc.com
To receive future press releases via email, please visit:http://renovacareinc.com/investors/register/
Follow us on Twitter https://twitter.com/Renovacareinc or follow us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/renovacarercar
For answers to frequently asked questions, please visit our FAQ’s page:http://renovacareinc.com/investors/faqs/
Social Media Disclaimer
Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using SEC filings and press releases. We use our website and social media to communicate with our subscribers, shareholders and the public about the company, RenovaCare, Inc. development, and other corporate matters that are in the public domain. At this time, the company will not post information on social media that could be deemed to be material information unless that information was distributed to public distribution channels first. We encourage investors, the media, and others interested in the company to review the information we post on the company’s website and the social media channels listed below:
• Facebook
• Twitter
* This list may be updated from time to time.
Legal Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
No statement herein should be considered an offer or a solicitation of an offer for the purchase or sale of any securities. This release contains forward-looking statements that are based upon current expectations or beliefs, as well as a number of assumptions about future events. Although RenovaCare, Inc. (the “Company”) believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements and the assumptions upon which they are based are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations and assumptions will prove to have been correct. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “intend,” or “project” or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, as these statements are subject to numerous factors and uncertainties, including but not limited to: the timing and success of clinical and preclinical studies of product candidates, the potential timing and success of the Company’s product programs through their individual product development and regulatory approval processes, adverse economic conditions, intense competition, lack of meaningful research results, entry of new competitors and products, inadequate capital, unexpected costs and operating deficits, increases in general and administrative costs, termination of contracts or agreements, obsolescence of the Company's technologies, technical problems with the Company's research, price increases for supplies and components, litigation and administrative proceedings involving the Company, the possible acquisition of new businesses or technologies that result in operating losses or that do not perform as anticipated, unanticipated losses, the possible fluctuation and volatility of the Company's operating results, financial condition and stock price, losses incurred in litigating and settling cases, dilution in the Company's ownership of its business, adverse publicity and news coverage, inability to carry out research, development and commercialization plans, loss or retirement of key executives and research scientists, and other risks. There can be no assurance that further research and development will validate and support the results of our preliminary research and studies. Further, there can be no assurance that the necessary regulatory approvals will be obtained or that the Company will be able to develop commercially viable products on the basis of its technologies. In addition, other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the Company's most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports and filings may be inspected and copied at the Public Reference Room maintained by the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information about operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005236/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005236/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}