PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
With the holiday shopping season underway, PECO has been hard at work to ensure safe and reliable electric service to keep area businesses and malls bustling. The company has completed inspections of approximately 157 miles of aerial line and 18 circuits that provide electric service to regional shopping malls and shipping distribution centers.
PECO’s program includes upgrading, replacing and repairing electrical equipment and completing maintenance work at key locations across the region. This work is part of PECO’s annual $500 million investment to provide safe, reliable, affordable and clean energy to customers and the communities we serve.
The inspections included visual examination of PECO’s aerial electric system to identify potential issues like damaged equipment and sagging lines. Infrared cameras are used to identify potential issues before they occur by recording temperature variations within a piece of equipment while in operation.
PECO’s annual circuit patrol program includes the inspection of 1,932 circuits and more than 13,000 miles of aerial line throughout the service territory.
In addition to electric system inspections, PECO also invests more than $100 million in the company’s natural gas system. This work includes equipment inspections, repairs and replacements, and preventive maintenance on the company’s natural gas transmission and distribution system.
Based in Philadelphia, PECO is an electric and natural gas utility subsidiary of Exelon Corporation (EXC). The company’s 2,500 dedicated employees provide advanced, innovative energy solutions to 1.6 million electric and more than 511,000 natural gas customers in southeastern Pennsylvania. In 2015 PECO delivered 86.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 38 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity. The company also has an estimated annual economic impact of $4.3 billion in Pennsylvania, supporting more than 8,700 local jobs and producing $732 million in labor income. Founded in 1881, PECO is one of the Greater Philadelphia Region's most active corporate citizens, providing leadership, volunteer and financial support to numerous arts and culture, education, environmental, economic development and community programs and organizations. For more information visit PECO.com, and connect with the company on Facebook and Twitter.
If you are a member of the media and would like to receive PECO news releases via email, please send your email address to PECO.Communication@exeloncorp.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006271/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}