BOULDER, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
A new white paper from Navigant Research examines the market dynamics, opportunities, and challenges embodied by the emerging Internet of Things (IoT) trend and its impact on the Energy Cloud.
The rapid adoption of Internet-connected devices supports a new digital foundation for the energy industry, and the emerging IoT touches nearly all aspects of energy generation, transmission, and distribution. IoT represents one of several emerging technology integration platforms within the Energy Cloud, which leverages ubiquitous connectivity, intelligent sensors and devices, information and operations technology, and data-driven machine-learning functionality across the grid value chain. Click to tweet: According to a new white paper from @NavigantRSRCH, the revenue opportunity represented by the commercial and residential IoT sectors is expected to total $776.8 billion from 2016 through 2025, representing a compound annual growth rate of nearly 17 percent.
“The IoT is a sweeping set of hardware and software technologies that represents an emerging digital foundation for the energy industry, and can be thought of as the connective tissue that enables the quickly emerging Energy Cloud,” says Neil Strother, principal research analyst with Navigant Research. “This unfolding IoT trend is one worth watching, and smart stakeholders will want to take strategic steps to ensure they take advantage of the opportunity over the next decade or so to provide value to customers and reap the profits.”
Currently, IoT holds great potential for streamlined operations, the integration of distributed energy resources, and the ability to connect with customer assets in new and helpful ways. According to the white paper, the increasing connectivity of assets results in greater reliability, increased safety from knowing in real-time what is happening in grid-edge devices, and the ability to share that data to keep customers comfortable and safe.
The white paper, IoT and the Future of Networked Energy, explores the market dynamics, opportunities, and challenges embodied by the emerging IoT trend and its impact on the Energy Cloud. The paper provides meaningful insights about IoT platforms and introduces the IoT Playbook, a framework for making key business decisions for harnessing the benefits to drive growth. It also provides a high-level assessment of some of the risks involved as the IoT market shifts and matures. An Executive Summary of the report is available for free download on the Navigant Research website.
About Navigant Research
Navigant Research, the dedicated research arm of Navigant, provides market research and benchmarking services for rapidly changing and often highly regulated industries. In the energy sector, Navigant Research focuses on in-depth analysis and reporting about global clean technology markets. The team’s research methodology combines supply-side industry analysis, end-user primary research and demand assessment, and deep examination of technology trends to provide a comprehensive view of the Energy Technologies, Utility Transformations, Transportation Efficiencies, and Buildings Innovations sectors. Additional information about Navigant Research can be found at www.navigantresearch.com.
About Navigant
Navigant Consulting, Inc. is a specialized, global professional services firm that helps clients take control of their future. Navigant’s professionals apply deep industry knowledge, substantive technical expertise, and an enterprising approach to help clients build, manage and/or protect their business interests. With a focus on markets and clients facing transformational change and significant regulatory or legal pressures, the Firm primarily serves clients in the healthcare, energy and financial services industries. Across a range of advisory, consulting, outsourcing, and technology/analytics services, Navigant’s practitioners bring sharp insight that pinpoints opportunities and delivers powerful results. More information about Navigant can be found at navigant.com.
* The information contained in this press release concerning the report, IoT and the Future of Networked Energy, is a summary and reflects Navigant Research’s current expectations based on market data and trend analysis. Market predictions and expectations are inherently uncertain and actual results may differ materially from those contained in this press release or the report. Please refer to the full report for a complete understanding of the assumptions underlying the report’s conclusions and the methodologies used to create the report. Neither Navigant Research nor Navigant undertakes any obligation to update any of the information contained in this press release or the report.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005197/en/
 .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} ;}