CRAWLEY, England--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Spirent Communications plc (SPT.L), the leader in Voice over Long Term Evolution (VoLTE) and Video over Long Term Evolution (ViLTE) developer solutions, announced today that it has received the Frost & Sullivan 2016 Global VoLTE and ViLTE Client Development for Mobile Devices New Product Innovation Award.
The research firm’s award recognizes Spirent’s BEEHD VoLTE and ViLTE framework as the best-in-breed client development framework solution for developers, device manufacturers and chipset vendors. The software is used to create VoLTE and ViLTE applications more quickly and cost effectively.
“Frost & Sullivan used a 10-point customized decision support scorecard to objectively analyze and rate the performance of competing VoLTE and ViLTE solutions for this Innovation Award,” said Pierre Hagendorf, general manager of Spirent’s Connectivity and Technology Management business unit. “Spirent’s BEEHD framework earned 9.7 points on the maximum 10-point rating scale, 67% better than the nearest competing product, which underlines our technological leadership in this field.”
VoLTE and ViLTE services are expected to grow more than ten-fold over the next four years with a growth rate of more than 70% year-on-year. According to SNS research, the VoLTE market in 2020 will represent $200 billion annual revenues from 4,400 billion minutes of voice and video calls over global networks.
Entering this fast-growing market poses key challenges that mobile device manufacturers must first address. Building VoLTE and ViLTE application clients and obtaining certification of the device with network carriers can take up to 12 months of expensive in-house development. Using Spirent’s BEEHD, device manufacturers will reduce time-to-market by at least 50% and development costs by up to 70%.
Spirent’s BEEHD VoLTE/ViLTE and RCS communications client framework allows application developers, device manufacturers and chipset vendors to add IMS-compliant voice, video and rich communication capabilities in products such as tablets, desktops, laptops, smart-phones and any LTE mobile device. The firm’s ready-made software development kit with standards-compliant and proven VoLTE and ViLTE functionalities eliminates any need for in-house development of standards-based signaling, media and security, and dispenses the need for developers to familiarize themselves with multiple standards implementation and different operating system APIs.
Frost & Sullivan’s benchmarking scorecard shows the BEEHD framework offering the best degree of flexibility to meet mobile network operators (MNOs) VoLTE and ViLTE requirements. The modular structure of Spirent’s software development kit offers developers easy mix and match client capabilities and the option of further enrichment of the client as part of a product roadmap. It automatically detects hardware-based codecs, and the audio and video quality algorithms provide excellent voice and video user experiences, as well as other capabilities such as instant messaging.
About Spirent Communications plc
Spirent Communications plc. (SPT.L) is the leading provider of verification, assessment, analytics, and device intelligence solutions. We enable those who deliver networks, connected devices, and communication services to provide a superior user experience. From service provider networks and enterprise data centers to mobile communications and connected vehicles, Spirent works with leading innovators to help the world communicate and collaborate faster, better, and more securely. For more information, visit: http://www.spirent.com/About-Us/News_Room.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005258/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}