LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Technavio analysts forecast the global tire pressure monitoring systems (TPMS) market to grow at a CAGR of close to 15% during the forecast period, according to their latest report.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005038/en/ 
The research study covers the present scenario and growth prospects of the global tire pressure monitoring systems market for 2016-2020. The market size is determined based on factory fitment and aftermarket.
The growing popularity of TPMS among fleet managers is a key trend observed, leading to large-scale opportunity in the commercial vehicle space. “The increased emphasis on preventive maintenance is an effort to optimize the total cost of ownership among fleet managers, which will fuel the segment's growth. In terms of passenger cars, we expect this technology to hit high volume entry level cars by the end of forecast period,” says Siddharth Jaiswal, a lead analyst at Technavio for research on automotive electronics.
Request a sample report: http://www.technavio.com/request-a-sample?report=54717
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
Technavio analysts highlight the following three factors that are contributing to the growth of the global tire pressure monitoring systems market:
Reduction in fuel consumption and carbon emissions from vehicles
Advance automotive technologies are aimed at making the driving experience safer, comfortable, and convenient in addition to making them eco-friendly in nature. Rolling resistance from tires plays a crucial role in delivering the optimum fuel efficiency and level of exhaust emission from the vehicle. It has been found that low pressure in the tire leads to high rolling resistance. According to industry experts, with every 1 bar pressure drop in the tire from the stipulated value, the rolling resistance of tire increases by 20%-25% in passenger cars. A higher rolling resistance leads to increased fuel consumption by the engine, which results in significant reduction of the vehicle’s fuel efficiency.
The need for a device that can monitor the tire pressure continuously becomes crucial for optimum fuel efficiency and lower emissions. TPMS is one of those systems that can continuously monitor tire pressure to increase fuel efficiency can help reduce the exhaust emission from the vehicles by 0.6%-0.9%, which may arise due to under inflated tires.
Strict government mandates to curb vehicular emissions and increase fuel efficiency
The governments and automotive governing councils of various nations worldwide are encouraging the use of advanced systems and technologies that can help in reduction of vehicular emissions for a cleaner and healthier environment. In addition to these, governments of many countries have enforced various rules and initiatives that are aimed at the use of energy-efficient technologies. Gauging at the consequences of greenhouse effects and deteriorating air quality with increased vehicular emissions worldwide, the governments of various economies have mandated emission standards to be followed by the automakers.
Siddharth says, “Increased government’s thrust to conform to emission norms and the establishment of several vehicle safety initiatives have promoted the use of advanced systems such as TPMS in vehicles.”
TPMS form a part of rapidly growing ADAS market
As TPMS form a key feature of the overall ADAS suite in vehicles, we can justify the correlation between ADAS and TPMS markets. Hence, it is imperative to understand the market for ADAS and derive a consensus, should the penetration of ADAS increase the demand for TPMS at the same pace.
ADAS essentially consist of sub-systems and features that work independently. These features are combined to provide assistance, which not only ensures safety but also comfort and convenience to drivers of modern day vehicles. The inception of this technology can be attributed to the constantly tightening safety regulations that pushed the automotive value chain to develop technologies that could not just satisfy the regulatory requirements but also prove helpful in gaining a competitive advantage in the form of product differentiators.
Browse Related Reports:
Do you need a report on a market in a specific geographical cluster or country but can’t find what you’re looking for? Don’t worry, Technavio also takes client requests. Please contact enquiry@technavio.com with your requirements and our analysts will be happy to create a customized report just for you.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. The company develops over 2000 pieces of research every year, covering more than 500 technologies across 80 countries. Technavio has about 300 analysts globally who specialize in customized consulting and business research assignments across the latest leading edge technologies.
Technavio analysts employ primary as well as secondary research techniques to ascertain the size and vendor landscape in a range of markets. Analysts obtain information using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches, besides using in-house market modeling tools and proprietary databases. They corroborate this data with the data obtained from various market participants and stakeholders across the value chain, including vendors, service providers, distributors, re-sellers, and end-users.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005038/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005038/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}