SALT LAKE CITY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Central Logic, which recently launched the first web-based technology to operationalize care coordination using real-time data – Central Logic Patient Connect - announced today the appointment of Abraham Warshaw, MD, Senior Vice President of Mount Sinai Health System and Associate Professor of Population Health Science and Policy at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, to its recently formed Executive Advisory Board.
Central Logic is the healthcare industry’s leading provider of innovative transfer center, on-call scheduling technology and innovative data solutions.
Warshaw also is Chief and Medical Director for Access Services which oversees the health system’s transfer services at the Mount Sinai Health System in New York City.
“We are thrilled that Dr. Warshaw has joined Central Logic’s executive advisory board,” said Dr. Barry Chaiken, MD, chairman of the executive advisory board. “Dr. Warshaw’s expertise and insight will be invaluable to Central Logic as it looks to deploy its offerings across the entire spectrum of patient care. His background in transfer service complements Central Logic’s mission of revolutionizing care and I believe he will help push our innovation to even greater heights.”
Warshaw is board certified in emergency medicine and, in his role at Mount Sinai, has served as a consultant and committee member relating to a number of topics including hospital operations, physician relations and emergency management.
“Our goal in creating the executive advisory board is to bring together industry leaders who are committed to helping me guide the company into the future,” said Central Logic board chair and CEO, Jennifer Holmes. “This group of healthcare leaders will ensure Central Logic continues to launch innovative solutions like our newly-released Central Logic Patient Connect which improves population health management and helps providers operationalize their care coordination efforts.”
“Dr. Warshaw has dedicated his career to serving patients and the industry,” Holmes continued. “I’m confident his clinical expertise and knowledge of the challenges healthcare providers face today will play a significant role on our executive advisory board.”
Warshaw completed his residency in emergency medicine at Long Island Jewish Hospital, received his Doctor of Medicine degree from SUNY-Downstate, and holds a faculty appointment as associate professor in the department of Population Health Sciences and Policy at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.
About Central Logic: As the healthcare industry’s leading provider of innovative web-based data technology, Central Logic’s team works collaboratively with more than 500 hospitals and thousands of healthcare professionals – including physicians, administrators and healthcare staff – to operationalize transfer center, on-call scheduling, care coordination and population health management with comprehensive patient analytics and real-time reporting solutions. Its flagship solution, Central Logic Patient Connect, was launched in 2016 and uniquely gives visibility to real-time patient data from inside and outside a hospital’s four walls. Founded in 2005, the company helps hospitals and systems standardize processes, centralize actionable data and operationalize care coordination.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005986/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}