PETERBOROUGH, England--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Dun-Bri Group has today announced that recruitment for up to 5 jobs is to start this week, following the announcement that it will be opening a new branch in the Kingston Park area of Peterborough in early 2017.
Branded as Dun-Bri Cambridgeshire, the new building will act as a local trade counter and distribution hub for its ever expanding customer base of commercial and emergency vehicle lighting, as well as auto-electrical products.
The new roles are for full and part-time positions and cover a range of areas, including sales and customer service persons and drivers for a new daily delivery service. It will also see the start of a new Apprenticeship scheme locally, with the help of Opportunity Peterborough.
First established in 1989, the group is the United Kingdom’s leading and only specialist distributor of commercial vehicle lighting and auto-electrical products. Currently, they supply 11,000 different product lines with 90% held in stock for overnight delivery across the country.
Dun-Bri Group has also confirmed the appointment of Craig Garner as the new branch manager. Craig has been with the company for two and a half years having previously worked within our National Sales Office, as well as within Unipart Group.
Procurement of the new site has been completed and the group will begin fitting the new branch in the beginning of the New Year to welcome customers in March. The new 3,000 sq. ft. branch will provide the very latest the company has to offer, including an extended range of vehicle lighting products and automotive consumables tailored to the local market.
Andrew Strath, the Group Managing Director, said “We have been overwhelmed by the interest in our coming to Peterborough”.
“We want to get the branch absolutely right to welcome our new customers and have just started work to allow the new branch to open, and give our team time to bed in before having an Official Opening ceremony in April 2017.”
The decision by Dun-Bri Group to choose Peterborough as its base in the region was supported by Opportunity Peterborough, the city’s economic development company. Opportunity Peterborough works to aid sustainable growth in Peterborough by encouraging inward investment, enterprise development and delivering innovative projects that tackle business challenges.
Opportunity Peterborough chief executive, Steve Bowyer said, “We were delighted to assist Dun-Bri with their decision to expand into Peterborough. Our extensive knowledge of local service providers, key business contacts and economic insight helped inform their strategic decision making and we're pleased their move to Peterborough now enables the business to expand. Dun-Bri Cambridgeshire is a great addition to Peterborough and we’re looking forward to continuing to work closely with the team as they settle here in the city.”
The upcoming opening of the branch in Peterborough takes the company’s total sites to six, located across England.
Ends
Notes to editors:
1. Photographs and other images are available on request.
2. This press release and future press releases can be sent to you via email, fax or by post and is available in plain text as well as formatted PDF.
3. Dun-Bri Group first started trading in 1989. With its head office in Buntingford, Hertfordshire, it is the UK leader in the manufacture and distribution of light bars, flashing beacons and directional LED lighting for both the amber and emergency services; wiring harnesses; commercial vehicle after-market lighting and auto-electrical products. Further information on the company can be found at www.dun-bri-group.com.
4. The company now operates from locations in Hertfordshire, Cambridgeshire, Lancashire and Yorkshire servicing customers in the UK and Europe.
www.dun-bri-group.com
www.facebook.com/dunbrigroup
www.youtube.com/c/dunbrigroup
@DunBriGroup

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005640/en/
 .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}