SAN ANTONIO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Carenet Healthcare Services, a leading provider of Strategic Engagement, Clinical Activation, and Advocacy and Navigation solutions, is pleased to announce Jill Campbell has joined its senior management team as vice president of workforce planning and analysis.
Campbell will lead the evolution of Carenet’s Workforce team and platform, including the development of new tools, technologies, processes and models that enhance performance, reduce costs, increase revenue, and improve the member/patient, client and partner experience.
With more than 25 years of experience in contact center management, strategic planning and finance, Campbell brings extensive knowledge and expertise to the Carenet team. Prior to joining Carenet, she held numerous leadership roles at Citibank’s Retail Bank contact center, including chief financial officer, director of business planning and analysis, and senior director of workforce management and capacity planning.
“Jill is a seasoned, collaborative leader whose in-depth experience and sharp analytical, financial and operational skills will be an invaluable asset to our rapidly growing workforce and solutions portfolio,” said Carenet Chief Financial Officer Scott Schawe. “I am confident she will play a significant role in elevating the consumer healthcare experience and helping our clients optimize their service delivery and outcomes.”
About Carenet
For nearly 30 years, Carenet Healthcare Services has been providing solutions that simplify healthcare experiences while influencing millions of healthcare consumers to make better health choices. The company has a proven track record of measurably improving the quality and lowering the cost of healthcare for over 100 healthcare clients.
Award-winning solutions include Strategic Engagement, Clinical Activation, and Healthcare Advocacy and Navigation, which support ER avoidance, closing gaps in care, admission and readmission reduction, pharmacy-related cost savings and more.
Carenet has been recognized as one of the Inc. 500|5000 Fastest Growing Companies in America for eight consecutive years. For more information, visit www.carenethealthcare.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006399/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}