CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed four classes of Bank of America, N.A. - First Union National Bank Commercial Mortgage Trust's (BofA-FUNB) commercial mortgage pass-through certificates series 2001-3. A detailed list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The affirmation of class M reflects sufficient credit enhancement, due to a sizable subordinate class, and the stable performance of the two remaining loans. Class M is currently the most senior class and will continue to receive principal paydown. The remaining classes are affirmed at 'Dsf' due to experienced losses.
As of the November 2016 distribution date, the pool's aggregate principal balance has been reduced by 98.9% to $12.3 million from $1.14 billion at issuance. The pool has realized $45.5 million (4% of the original pool balance) in losses to date. Interest shortfalls are currently affecting classes N through Q.
Pool Concentration: The pool is concentrated with only two remaining loans.
Remaining Collateral: The largest loan in the pool (69.1% of the pool) is secured by a 98,344-square foot (sf) retail property located in Las Vegas, NV. The property is roughly two miles from the Las Vegas Strip and is shadow-anchored by Smith's, grocery store chain with 132 locations. The loan transferred to the special servicer in August 2011 due to a balloon payment default. However, after receiving a maturity date extension through November 2022, the loan was returned to the master servicer in August 2013 and has remained current. National tenants at the center include Chase Bank (ground lease), Jack in the Box and Supercuts, but the majority of the tenants are local. Occupancy has been stable for the past several years and was reported to be 91% as of June 2016. The debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) was reported to be 1.70x at year-end (YE) 2015.
The second remaining loan (30.9%) is secured by a 89,589-sf retail property located in Menasha, WI, which is approximately 35 miles southwest of Green Bay. This loan also received a maturity date extension after transferring to the special servicer in February 2011 for maturity default. As a result of the loan modification, the maturity date was extended to December 2018 and the loan was returned to the master servicer in January 2014. Gold's Gym (42% of net rentable area) occupies the anchor space, which was formerly leased to a grocery store. The property is shadow-anchored by ShopKo and features other national tenants including TCF Bank, Edward Jones and National Cash Advance. Occupancy at the property has been historically low with the average occupancy being 63% since 2008. As of June 2016, the occupancy and DSCR was reported to be 61% and 1.39x, respectively.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The Rating Outlook on class M remains Stable due to the class seniority and continued paydown. Any losses to the remaining loans should be absorbed by the subordinate N class. Given the pool concentration, upgrades to class M are unlikely.
DUE DILIGENCE USAGE
No third party due diligence was provided or reviewed in relation to this rating action.
Fitch affirms the following classes:
--$3.8 million class M at 'Bsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$8.5 million class N at 'Dsf'; RE 50%;
--$0 class O at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 class P at 'Dsf'; RE 0%.
The class A-1, A-2, A-2F, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, K and L certificates have paid in full. Fitch does not rate the class Q certificates or the subordinate component class V-1, V-2, V-3, V-4 and V-5 certificates. Fitch previously withdrew the rating on the interest-only class XC certificates.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Rating Caps and Limitations in Global Structured Finance Transactions (pub. 16 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882401
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
U.S. and Canadian Multiborrower CMBS Surveillance Criteria (pub. 11 Nov 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/889634
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015639
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015639
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005779/en/