DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Breath Analyzers Market by Application, by End-user - Global Industry Perspective, Comprehensive Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Segment, Trends and Forecast, 2015 - 2021" report to their offering.
Breath Analyzers Market (Fuel Cell, Semiconductor, Infrared and Crystal) by Application (Alcohol, Drug Abuse, Tuberculosis, Asthma and Cancer), by End-user (Law Enforcement, Enterprises and Individuals) - Global Industry Perspective, Comprehensive Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Segment, Trends and Forecast, 2015 - 2021
The report covers forecast and analysis for the breath analyzer market on a global and regional level. The study provides historic data of 2015 along with a forecast from 2016 to 2021 based on revenue (USD million). The study includes drivers and restraints for the breath analyzer market along with the impact they have on the demand over the forecast period. Additionally, the report includes the study of opportunities available in the breath analyzer market on a global level.
The regional segmentation includes the current and forecast demand for North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Rest of the world. This segmentation includes demand for breath analyzer based on individual applications in all the regions.
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1. Preface
Chapter 2. Executive Summary
Chapter 3. Breath analyzer Market: Industry Analysis
Chapter 4. Global Breath analyzer Market: Competitive Landscape
Chapter 5. Global Breath analyzer Market: Technology Overview
Chapter 6. Global Breath analyzer Market: Application Overview
Chapter 7. Global Breath analyzer Market: End User Overview
Chapter 8. Global Breath analyzer Market: Regional Analysis
Chapter 9. Company Profiles
Chapter 10. Patents
Companies Mentioned
- Akers Biosciences, Inc
- Alcohol Countermeasure Systems Corporation
- BACtrack Inc
- KGaA
- Lifeloc Technologies
- MDP
- Quest products, Inc
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/llb4sn/breath_analyzers

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005616/en/