LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Technavio analysts forecast the global piezoelectric market to grow at a CAGR of more than 6% during the forecast period, according to their latest report.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005096/en/ 
The research study covers the present scenario and growth prospects of the global piezoelectric market for 2016-2020. To determine the market size, the study considers revenue generated from industrial manufacturing, automotive, healthcare, and others.
Certain solid materials like crystals or ceramics can collect electric charge when a mechanical force is applied on them; this charge is termed as piezoelectricity. Piezoelectric materials are most commonly used in construction, to protect buildings from various adverse conditions. They are capable of sensing change in stimuli such as stress, temperature, moisture, pH, or magnetic field. The large number of construction products being undertaken will drive market growth during the forecast period.
Piezoelectric ceramic-polymer composites provide superior properties such as design versatility and performance advantages when compared with single-phase ceramic and polymer piezoelectric materials. Piezoelectric ceramics are gaining traction in the market due to their high piezoelectric activities and permittivity. In addition, the ease of fabricating materials into different sizes and shapes, including sheets of different sizes, cylinders, bars, and plates, is driving the demand for piezoelectric ceramics.
Request a sample report: http://www.technavio.com/request-a-sample?report=54746
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
Technavio analysts highlight the following four factors that are contributing to the growth of the global piezoelectric market:
Rising opportunities for piezoelectric devices in automotive industry
“Piezoelectric devices hold significance in a broad range of vehicle components as they are cost-effective can function efficiently billions of times without any deterioration. These piezoelectric auto actuators are used to adjust lenses and mirrors. Simplicity and reliability are the two major criteria fulfilled by the used of piezoelectric devices in automobiles,” says Sunil Kumar Singh, one of the lead analysts at Technavio for semiconductor equipment research.
Additionally, piezoelectric fuel injectors aid in improving fuel economy and reduce emissions. They also provide a better driving experience and improve automotive controlling. In 2015, most cars had sensors such as piezoelectric tire pressure sensors, engine knock sensors, backup sensors, and dynamic pressure sensors which were used to enhance safety. APC International and Morgan Advanced Materials are two of the major manufacturers of piezoelectric devices for automotive applications.
Increase in demand from military and aerospace sector
Materials with enhanced functional properties such as shape memory, electrochromism, and piezoelectricity are gaining demand in the aerospace industries. These materials help in controlling the airflow across the wings of an aircraft, keeping it stable during takeoff, flying, and landing with more efficiently and precision.
Piezoelectric devices are used to solve common problems within an aircraft such as engine vibration, high cabin noise levels, ice formation on wings, flow separation due to turbulence, and control surfaces in cold climatic conditions. Piezoelectric materials are also used for piezo accelerometers, flow meters, gyroscopes level sensors, and pressure sensors in this industry. In the military, piezoelectric devices are used in smart sensors, smart nanorobotics, smart combat suits, smart skins, and other applications.
Growing demand from construction industry
“Structural health monitoring, vibration control, and environmental control are the three main appplications of piezoelectric technology in the construction industry. Structural health monitoring is where piezoelectric smart materials find their most widespread applications. Structural health monitoring involves the monitoring of loads and detection of damage in the structures,” says Sunil.
Advances in smart piezoelectric materials is driving the demand for its use in structural monitoring and vibration control. The global piezoelectric market for the construction and infrastructure segment will rise because of the growing demands for these smart materials. The global construction market will reach USD 12 trillion by 2020, leading to a rise in the use of piezoelectric smart materials in the segment. The majority of the growth is expected to come from the nonresidential sector.
Rise in R&D efforts
Transportation, healthcare, and smart packaging are few of the many sectors that have been receiving significnt attention with respect to R&D. The transportation sector, the military and aerospace sector, followed by the automotive and marine sectors account for the major R&D. In the US, organizations such as the Naval Research Laboratory, Army Research Laboratories, and Air Force Research Laboratories has offered funding to universities. This has led to the rise of many startup organizations in the field of piezoelectric technology. In Europe, defense programs funded by Central European Chapter, Western European Union, and a few of the large aerospace companies are being undertaken by many institutions.
Browse Related Reports:
Do you need a report on a market in a specific geographical cluster or country but can’t find what you’re looking for? Don’t worry, Technavio also takes client requests. Please contact enquiry@technavio.com with your requirements and our analysts will be happy to create a customized report just for you.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. The company develops over 2000 pieces of research every year, covering more than 500 technologies across 80 countries. Technavio has about 300 analysts globally who specialize in customized consulting and business research assignments across the latest leading edge technologies.
Technavio analysts employ primary as well as secondary research techniques to ascertain the size and vendor landscape in a range of markets. Analysts obtain information using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches, besides using in-house market modeling tools and proprietary databases. They corroborate this data with the data obtained from various market participants and stakeholders across the value chain, including vendors, service providers, distributors, re-sellers, and end-users.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005096/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005096/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}