TORRANCE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Celprogen Inc., a leader in the Stem Cell Research and Therapeutics industry for stem cell research since 2002, today announced that they have successfully finished printing a 3D Pancreas from flexible Poly Lactic Acid (PLA) material scaffold that was populated with adult human pancreatic stem cells.
These 3D printed human pancreases were coated and seeded with human adult pancreatic stem cells. The 3D pancreas scaffold was populated with three T225 human Pancreatic Stem Cells 36097-24-T225, and with human adult pancreatic cells 3002-04-T225; the scaffold was coated with ECM prior to seeding the cells. This flexible PLA scaffold allows the seeded pancreatic stem cells to potentially differentiate into an adult functional pancreas. The 3D print was reduced from an adult 18 year old pancreas to approximately 1/5 its original size.
The present invention relates to 3D organ printing programs at Celprogen that identify potential future use in transplants of major organ systems. At present Celprogen is validating the 3D human printed heart from flexible PLA, and also the pancreas. The 3D printed heart is being presented at the American Society of Cell Biology Annual meeting next week in San Francisco, California. The 3D printed heart is utilized as a model for screening potential drug candidates for cardiac toxicity.
About Celprogen Inc.
Celprogen Inc. is a global Stem Cell Research & Therapeutics company since 2002, which is developing a proprietary portfolio of unique therapeutics products and life science research tools that includes genetic engineering technologies, stem cell technologies for regenerative medicine, as well as bio-engineering products for tissue & organ transplants. Headquartered in Torrance, California, Celprogen is committed to the research, development, and manufacture of quality Stem Cell, Cancer Stem Cell and Primary Cell Culture products to serve our global community. Additional information about Celprogen is available at http://www.celprogen.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006443/en/