European stocks were little changed, following their first monthly advance in three, ahead of the Italian referendum.The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell less than 0.1 percent at 8:29 a.m. in London. The benchmark climbed yesterday amid gains in crude after OPEC agreed on a deal to cut production. 




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Investors are awaiting the outcome of Italy’s vote on constitutional reform on Sunday. After surprise victories for the Brexit campaign and Donald Trump in the U.S. election, equity traders aren’t taking any chances. They are paying the most in more than two years to hedge against swings in the FTSE MIB Index relative to the Euro Stoxx 50 Index. The Italian benchmark fell 0.7 percent today, following a monthly decline.European stocks climbed 0.9 percent in November on speculation Donald Trump’s U.S. election win will lead to increased fiscal spending. Industries seen benefiting from stronger economic growth -- including miners, banks and insurers -- led gains, while defensive shares such as utilities and telecommunications shares lagged.Commodity stocks rebounded from a two-day decline on Thursday, with Glencore Plc up 3 percent after saying its debt reduction plan is on track and it will reinstate its dividend next year. Oil-and-gas producers extended gains, poised for their biggest back-to-back advance since June.Among stocks active on corporate news: