Pedestrians walk past the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas.A Taiwanese-American businesswoman and her commercial ties to U.S. President-elect Donald Trump have been thrust into the spotlight since he broke with almost four decades of U.S.-China policy by taking a congratulatory phone call from Taiwan’s president.The scrutiny of Charlyne Chen has centered on a September meeting to discuss projects in the Taiwanese city of Taoyuan and if she was there representing the Trump Organization. While initially little noticed, interest in that meeting has intensified after Trump’s election victory and a public announcement that he spoke Friday with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen, prompting a diplomatic protest from China.In a brief phone conversation Monday with Bloomberg News, Chen said that while she wasn’t a Trump employee, she had had interactions with his organization. Speaking on Nov. 24 with local broadcaster Formosa Television, Chen said she’d helped sell properties at a Trump Organization development in Las Vegas to buyers in Taiwan and Shanghai.Amanda Miller, a spokeswoman for the Trump Organization, said the company had no plan for expansion in Taiwan and that there’d been no authorized visits to push development projects there.Governed separately since 1949 as a result of civil war, China considers Taiwan part of its territory that can be retaken by force. The U.S. has had no official diplomatic ties with the island since recognizing China in 1979, nor had any American president or president-elect disclosed conversations with the leader of Taiwan. Trump’s decision to break from that policy comes ahead of a Dec. 15 briefing he’s scheduled to address concerns on how he’ll avoid conflicts with his business interests as president.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




At the September meeting Chen attended with the mayor of Taoyuan, local officials provided her with information about the Taoyuan Aerotropolis Project, a mixed-use site of residential, commercial and transportation developments currently being reviewed by the government. In a statement issued Nov. 17 in response to local media reports, the city said Chen at the meeting presented a document from the Trump Organization outlining her business ties with the company.Chen showed a copy of a letter during an appearance on Formosa Television last month. It was an undated welcome letter to Trump International Hotel Las Vegas visitors from Taiwan. The letter refers to Chen as a “sales ambassador," with whom potential investors could meet regarding the “ownership opportunities” they were being offered.When speaking by phone Monday, Chen denied she was using links to the Trump Organization for personal benefit. She said she’d hosted a dinner for Trump supporters in Taipei ahead of the Nov. 8 election. “I didn’t come out and support him after he got elected, I actually held a dinner for him before that,” Chen said.That dinner for about 50 guests took place on Nov. 1, according to Sanlih E-Television. Chen indicated to attendees that Trump was interested in building a tower on the island, the broadcaster reported.At a daily briefing Monday in Washington, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said progress made in U.S.-Chinese relationship “could be undermined by this issue flaring up,” referring to Trump’s conversation with Taiwan’s president.“It’s a sensitive matter,” Earnest said. “Whenever you are talking about the president-elect of the United States interacting with foreign leaders, it’s incredibly important” and has a “profound impact”.