McDonald’s Corp. moved its non-U.S. tax base to the U.K., ditching Luxembourg where its tax arrangements are under attack from European Union regulators and critics of corporate tax avoidance.In an apparent vote of confidence in the U.K., which decided in June to leave the EU, the hamburger giant is creating a new international holding company based in the country.The new company will be responsible for most of the royalties received from licensing McDonald’s intellectual property rights outside the U.S. It will pay U.K. corporation tax, the company said in an e-mailed statement. It will make changes to its corporate structure starting next month.“McDonald’s selected the U.K. for the location of its new international holding structure because” of the ”significant number of staff based in London working on our international business, language, and connections to other markets," it said in the statement.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




McDonald’s announcement comes as tax arrangements in Luxembourg receive tough scrutiny from EU antitrust officials. The company’s tax strategy has been targeted by trade unions and consumer groups who allege that it avoided more than 1 billion euros ($1.08 billion) in taxes in Europe between 2009 and 2013. An EU official said earlier this year that the McDonald’s case shows “just how far some companies push tax authorities to avoid paying any taxes.”“McDonald’s pays a significant amount of corporate taxes,” the company said. “From 2011-2015, we paid more than $2.5 billion in corporate taxes in the EU, with an average tax rate approaching 27 percent.” It generates about two-thirds of its revenue from outside the U.S.Amazon.com Inc. tax deals with Luxembourg are also being probed by the EU, which in August ordered Apple Inc. to pay back as much as 13 billion euros plus interest over tax arrangements with Ireland that regulators said were illegal.While Luxembourg has a corporate tax rate of as low as 20 percent, many multinational corporations received tax rulings that lowered effective taxes on profits transferred to the country. Leaked documents from 2014 showed that more than 340 companies such as PepsiCo Inc., Ikea Group and FedEx Corp. transferred profits to the country through tax arrangements.The European Commission said last year that one of McDonald’s units has paid no tax in Luxembourg since 2009 despite recording large profits. The company’s French offices were inspected by the country’s fiscal authorities in 2013.Luxembourg’s finance ministry didn’t immediately respond to a call for comment.