Foxconn Technology Group, the biggest assembler of Apple Inc. devices, is in preliminary discussions to make an investment that would expand the company’s U.S. operations.




 Exclusive insights on technology around the world.
 

 Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The disclosure came hours after an announcement by U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and SoftBank Group Corp.’s Masayoshi Son to invest $50 billion in the U.S. and create 50,000 jobs. The money will come from SoftBank’s $100 billion technology fund, which was announced in October, a person familiar with the matter said. A document that Son held up after the meeting in Trump Tower also included the words “Foxconn,” “$7 billion” and “50,000 new jobs” in addition to SoftBank’s numbers.“While the scope of the potential investment has not been determined, we will announce the details of any plans following the completion of direct discussions between our leadership and the relevant U.S. officials,” Foxconn said in a statement. “Those plans would be made based on mutually-agreed terms.”Foxconn gave no further details. The Taiwan-based manufacturer assembles iPhones, iPads and other Apple hardware outside the U.S., in addition to computers and appliances for other global brands. Trump has publicly called for Apple to move production back to the U.S. to create jobs. Most of Foxconn’s assembly force is currently in China.“Moving manufacturing is difficult and complicated,” said Bill Tsai, an analyst at Mega International Investment Services Corp., citing the need to find labor and build a supply chain. “Politics is temporary, business is permanent.”— With assistance by Yuan Gao, and Takashi Amano