John Mahama Photographer: Michael Nagle/BloombergGhanaian President John Mahama and his main opponent in Wednesday’s elections were neck and neck after the release of early provisional results as both candidates claimed the lead in the race for the presidency.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Mahama of the National Democratic Congress led the count winning 50.8 percent of 635,708 votes from 21 of the West African nation’s 275 constituencies, according to results published Thursday on the website of Citi FM, a broadcaster based in the capital, Accra. Nana Akufo-Addo of the New Patriotic Party had 47.5 percent of the vote, Citi FM said. Ghana’s electoral commission hasn’t yet verified the results.The NPP said Akufo-Addo has won 4.6 million votes, against 3.64 million for Mahama, citing its own calculation of votes based on 80 percent of results nationwide. The NDC said Mahama was in a “comfortable lead” and advised its supporters to wait for certified results.Both Akufo-Addo, 72, and Mahama, the 58-year-old incumbent seeking a second four-year term, campaigned with pledges to reignite growth in West Africa’s second-biggest economy. It’s projected to grow 3.3 percent this year, the slowest rate in two decades, after delays in new oil projects weighed on the country’s income.Observers say the vote have been conducted largely without delays or irregularities.“The elections have generally been peaceful, far more peaceful than anticipated,” Seidu Alidu, an analyst at the department of political sciences at the University of Ghana in Accra, said by phone on Wednesday. “If things are going to continue the way it started, I don’t thing there would be a basis for people to dispute the results.”In 90 percent of the more than 28,900 stations, all election materials were available when polls opened, while 93 percent were operational by 8 a.m., an hour after the scheduled start, the Coalition of Domestic Election Observers, a network of civil society groups observing the elections, told reporters in Accra.Voter registers and biometric verification devices were available at 95 percent of polling stations and ballot boxes were shown to be empty everywhere prior to the start, the group said.Voting will continue Thursday in at least one constituency in the central Brong Ahafo region, after a dispute between the major parties over the voter register, Eric Dzakpasu, a spokesman for the Ghana Electoral Commission, said by phone.