Swiss President: Immigration Solution Will Fit EU RulesSwitzerland’s plan to solve an immigration dilemma with the European Union could avoid being held up by another referendum if it gets strong support in parliament next week, according to Swiss President Johann Schneider-Ammann.A clear result in a final vote on Dec. 16 with the Swiss People’s Party, or SVP, in the minority could make it “delicate” for the group to push for another plebiscite, he said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Guy Johnson.Johann Schneider-Ammann speaks with Guy Johnson on December 6.A new vote would further extend Switzerland’s long-running attempts to secure an agreement with the EU on immigration after a 2014 plebiscite, initiated by the SVP, backed quotas on foreign workers. Such a move would contravene a set of treaties with the bloc and nullify crucial trade deals.“In this particular question -- free movement of persons to our country -- they will not want to get a defeat, they want to stay the winners,” Schneider-Amman said. “The situation will be extremely delicate for them. I do not speculate.”Parliament in Bern is trying to bridge the divide with the bloc by sidestepping formal numerical limits and simply requiring employers to register vacancies at local job centers. Schneider-Ammann said that he believes parliament’s plan is “compatible” with EU rules.Quotas for EU newcomers, who under current laws may take up jobs and residence in Switzerland without special permission, would contravene an economically important set of treaties. Their loss could stunt economic growth, which is already suffering due to the strong franc.The State Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern’s most recent forecast is for economic growth of 1.5 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2017. It will update that prediction next week. The central bank is using negative interest rates plus a pledge to intervene in currency markets to stem the francs appreciation.“As far as the Swiss franc is concerned, it’s strong, it will stay strong and we handle the strength of the Swiss franc by investing into education, into research, into innovation,” Schneider-Ammann said. “Based on that, we can allow for a certain period of time to be confronted by our overvalued Swiss franc.”




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Heightened political risk in neighboring countries, following Britain’s vote to leave the EU earlier this year and Italy’s recent constitutional referendum, could once again lead to an increased appetite among investors for the franc, making Swiss goods more expensive to foreign buyers. The EU is the top destination for Swiss exports and Schneider-Ammann said that if growth in the bloc suffers, Switzerland will be affected as well.Another item on the government’s to-do list for 2017 is a reform of the corporate tax code. Under pressure from abroad, the Swiss will have to do away with the special tax breaks they give multinationals, and cantons will lower the headline rate they charge other companies. The reform, already passed by parliament, will come up for a national vote in February.Opponents of the plan say it’s too costly, while the government argues it’s necessary to keep Switzerland attractive internationally as a place for doing business.“I assume there’s a fair possibility for the Swiss government to persuade our population to follow the government,” Schneider-Ammann said. “We have a good offer,” he also said, adding there was “no plan B.”