UBS' Smiles: U.S. Equities Not in Bubble TerritoryDonald Trump’s vows to ramp up infrastructure spending and ease banking regulations are giving a burst to the Dow Jones Industrial Average that’s sending it rocketing past the broader market.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The 120-year-old stalwart of the U.S. equity market powered to a fresh record Monday as the S&P 500 Index hovered nine points below its own all-time high and traded near its biggest discount to the Dow since May 2014. The two indexes are the least correlated in almost six years as the blue-chip measure benefits from the burnished outlook for industrial companies and banks ushered in by Trump’s win, while losses in technology companies and utilities tug at the S&P 500.Speculation the president-elect’s agenda will favor U.S. manufacturers and big factory employers has lit a fire under the Dow, which counts industrial stocks like General Electric Co. and Boeing Co. as its biggest sector with a 20 percent weighting. They’re less than 11 percent of the S&P 500.The Dow is set to outperform its broader counterpart on an annual basis for the first time since 2011, rallying 10 percent this year, while the S&P 500 has climbed 7.9 percent. The day before the election they were pretty much neck-and-neck, with the Dow up 4.8 percent in 2016 and the S&P 500 headed for a yearly advance of 4.3 percent.The 7.9 percent climb in U.S. industrial stocks since Nov. 7 is second only to the 15 percent surge racked up by financial shares, with banks buoyed by plummeting bond yields. In fact, the S&P 500’s industrial sub-index rose to a level Dec. 1 that marked its biggest premium since 2011 over the wider benchmark. Utilities have led losses in the S&P 500 since the election, slipping 5.2 percent, while technology shares -- thought to be disadvantaged when it comes to the president-elect’s trade and immigration policies -- have fallen by 1.3 percent. Tech has the biggest weighting in the S&P 500 at 21 percent, followed by banks with 15 percent and health-care and consumer-discretionary shares at 14 percent and 12 percent, respectively.