Market Implications of Brexit NegotiationsU.K. Prime Minister Theresa May’s government challenged its political opponents to back its plan to trigger the start of Brexit by March next year, as lawmakers prepared to vote on the timetable for leaving the European Union for the first time.Follow @Brexit for the latest news, and sign up to our Brexit Bulletin for a daily roundup.Members of Parliament were debating a motion on Wednesday that backs the prime minister’s schedule for beginning the formal Brexit process. This requires the U.K. to give notice of its departure from the bloc under Article 50 of the EU’s Lisbon Treaty, something May says she will do by the end of March.The premier has promised to set out her plan for Brexit and give lawmakers the chance to scrutinize it before she triggers Article 50, but some opposition members of the House of Commons have already said they will vote against the non-binding motion on Wednesday. Britons voted by 52 percent to 48 percent in June to quit the bloc.“The vote tonight will be the first opportunity for members of this house to decide whether or not they support the government’s timetable of triggering Article 50 by the end of March 2017,” David Lidington, a senior minister in May’s cabinet, told Parliament before the full debate began. Any lawmaker who votes against the motion “will in my view be seeking to thwart the outcome of the referendum in the most profoundly undemocratic fashion.”




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Opening the main debate for the opposition Labour Party, Keir Starmer said he does not want to “frustrate” the Brexit process “or to delay the timetable,” but he called on the government to produce a minimum plan for what it wanted to achieve in talks with the EU. “We’re not going to have a situation where the government seeks a vote in a vacuum or produces a late, vague plan,” Starmer told lawmakers.May’s team must set out a strategy that includes “enough detail and clarity to end the circus of uncertainty” on the U.K.’s membership of the EU single market, customs union, and any proposal for transitional arrangements to soften the blow after leaving the EU, Starmer said.