Barclays Plc agreed to sublet office space in London’s Canary Wharf financial district to the U.K. government, saving the cost-pressured British bank about 35 million pounds ($45 million) a year.The Cabinet Office will lease about 540,000 square feet (50,168 square meters) of space in 10 South Colonnade, according to a statement on Barclays’s website Tuesday. IT and human resources staff formerly in the building are being moved to Barclays’s headquarters at 1 Churchill Place or the investment bank office in the same district, a spokeswoman said by telephone.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Chief Executive Officer Jes Staley has said Barclays can make “tremendous savings” by reducing the amount of real estate it owns and leases, with headcount set to fall by a net 17,000 this year. The bank took a 150 million-pound charge in the third quarter related to the property disposal, which Staley said equates to the elimination of around 5,000 desks, or a quarter of its London office space. Barclays’s move could be the first among a series of real-estate reduction programs in London as European banks seek to cut fixed costs and improve profitability, Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Jonathan Tyce said in a report Oct. 28.“The impact of technology, as well as relocation risks heightened by Brexit and passporting concerns, point to further structural cost reductions that could involve significant real-estate retrenchment,” Tyce said. “The structural benefit to the fixed-cost base will become increasingly meaningful, and more than offset upfront charges.”Read more: What Barclays’s move means for broader marketRents for the best space in Canary Wharf were about 45 pounds a square foot at the end of last year, compared with 70 pounds in the City of London financial district, according to data compiled by broker Colliers International Group Inc.