UniCredit SpA agreed to sell 32.8 percent of its Bank Pekao SA unit to Insurer PZU SA and a Polish development fund for 10.6 billion zloty ($2.6 billion) as part of the Italian lender’s plan to boost capital.The price is 123 zloty a share for the stake, the Polish companies said in a statement on Thursday. The purchase will make the Polish government the biggest Pekao shareholder, effectively holding about a third of the stock, which will allow it to control the supervisory board and make changes management.The sale will increase UniCredit’s CET1 capital ratio by 55 basis points above its Sept. 30 level, the Italian bank said. in a separate statement. It will will sell its remaining 7.3 percent stake in Pekao on the market via secured equity-linked certificates. The Polish buyers will also purchase UniCredit’s holdings in three asset-management companies for about 142 million euros ($153 million.) the Italian bank said.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




UniCredit Chief Executive Officer Jean Pierre Mustier, a 55-year-old Frenchman who took over in July, is disposing of assets and weighing a capital increase to strengthen finances as part of a strategic review that will be disclosed on Dec. 13. Italy’s biggest bank by assets emerged from the latest European stress tests with the slimmest capital margin among banks deemed important to the financial system.Jean-Pierre MustierThe CEO said earlier this week his plans haven’t changed since Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi announced his plan to step down after his referendum on constitutional reforms was soundly beaten on Dec. 5. UniCredit, is considering raising as much as 13 billion euros ($14 billion) through a combination of a stock offering and asset sales, people with knowledge of the matter have said.The lender on Monday said it’s in exclusive talks with French fund manager Amundi SA on the sale of Pioneer Global Asset Management SpA, a business that may be valued at as much as 3.5 billion euros, according to people familiar with the matter.Italian banks are straining under some 360 billion euros in soured loans, the equivalent of about a fifth of the country’s gross domestic product. UniCredit’s third-quarter profit declined 12 percent to 447 million euros from a year earlier, while previous disposals of stakes in Pekao and online lender FinecoBank SpA helped raise the common equity Tier 1 ratio to 10.8 percent from 10.3 percent.UniCredit and Allianz AG bought a 52.9 percent stake in Pekao in 1999 for $1.09 billion, outbidding competitors such as Citigroup Inc. Since then, the Polish bank’s shares more than doubled. In July, UniCredit sold 10 percent in the Polish unit for an equivalent of $799 million.