Gene Munster in 2010.Gene Munster, a 21-year veteran analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., is leaving the firm, people familiar with the matter said. He plans to start a venture capital firm, according to financial news website Benzinga.Munster was known for his accuracy in predicting Apple Inc.’s financial potential. The company’s share price is almost 50 times greater now than when he first recommended the stock in June 2004. He’s ranked No. 11 out of 58 Apple analysts based on performance for the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.




 Exclusive insights on technology around the world.
 

 Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Munster, who also covered Alphabet Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., will create his own firm called Loup Ventures, focused on augmented reality, artificial intelligence and robotics investments, according to Benzinga, which first reported his departure. Munster didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. Benzinga also reported that Bob Peck, who covered technology and Internet companies at Suntrust Robinson Humphrey, is leaving to go to Credit Suisse Group AG.Munster’s analysis of Apple made him a popular figure during the company’s quarterly earnings calls. He regularly asked Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook about Apple’s plans for a television set and the company’s moves in the automotive industry. Apple’s plans for a TV haven’t materialized.“It means he senses some bigger opportunities,” Ben Bajarin, an analyst at researcher Creative Strategies, said of Munster’s move to invest in new technologies. “It may be because of what he believes Apple is doing in those areas that causes him to get excited and thus want to invest as they develop the bigger opportunities there.”Munster, 45, is known for taking to the streets to feed his clients’ need for reliable information. In his early days as an Apple analyst, he asked questions of fellow music listeners at the gym to better understand the iPod’s burgeoning success. For years, Munster would walk the lines of iPhone launches outside Apple stores to grasp the demand for the company’s latest smartphone iteration.