Asian stocks joined a global relief rally as investors switched their focus back to the outlook for U.S. monetary policy following the defeat of Italy’s constitutional referendum. Bonds and crude oil retreated.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Mining and consumer shares led the Asian equity benchmark higher following the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s return to a record. The won strengthened for the first time in three days, and the euro was near its strongest level since mid-November after wiping out an initial slump Monday on the Italian premier’s resignation. Australia’s bonds fell with debt in the region amid expectations the central bank will hold its benchmark interest rate at a Tuesday meeting. Oil snapped a four-day climb.Traders -- burned by the shock Brexit vote and Donald Trump’s surprise victory -- correctly anticipated Italy’s rejection of Senate reform, helping contain the financial market fallout. Investors are pivoting back to the U.S., with the Federal Reserve’s policy review just over a week away and data bolstering confidence in the world’s largest economy. American services industries grew at the fastest pace in 13 months in November, a report Monday showed, further embedding bets on the Fed hiking rates.“Investors shrugged off the anti-establishment messages from the Italian referendum to drive share prices higher,” said Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist in Sydney at CMC Markets. “Attention now turns to the Fed’s interest-rate decision next week, the last listed major risk event for the year.”Economists project the Reserve Bank of Australia will keep the cash rate target at 1.5 percent Tuesday, and Indonesia issues data on consumer confidence. Inflation in Taiwan and the Philippines unexpectedly accelerated in November from a year earlier. StocksCurrenciesBondsCommodities