Credit Suisse Group AG lowered profit targets for two of its units and pledged to cut another 1 billion francs ($1 billion) in costs, as a slump in asset management and investment banking forces Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam to adjust his turnaround plan.The Zurich-based bank lowered 2018 pretax income targets for its international wealth management business and its Asian division to 1.8 billion francs and 1.6 billion francs respectively, according to a statement Wednesday. Both had previously targeted 2.1 billion francs in profit. The bank is targeting an operating cost base of less than 17 billion Swiss francs by 2018, down from an earlier goal of below 18 billion francs.“Given the unsupportive market conditions we are facing, the realization of our profit objectives plan is now more geared to the delivery of cost reductions, over which we have greater control than revenue growth,” the bank said in the statement. “This also leaves us with potential upside, should market conditions improve.”It’s the second time Thiam is adjusting his plan to reorganize the company along geographical lines, downsize the investment bank in favor of wealth management, and hold an initial public offering of the Swiss business. In March, he stepped up job cuts for this year after unexpected losses at the global markets unit. Shares of Credit Suisse have lost 41 percent since the plan was first announced in October of last year, as investors questioned his ambitious profit goals for the new units.“Credit Suisse’s strategy was too dependent on growth in Asia and this is a moderation of that,” said Neil Smith, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf who has a hold recommendation on the shares. “They’re scaling back their ambitions and readjusting expectations.”The new targets in Asia and the international unit resulted from declines in the Asian investment bank and lower fees for asset management, Credit Suisse said. The bank kept its target for both units’ wealth management businesses.In Asia Pacific, Credit Suisse plans to cut costs by 300 million francs to even out some of the market impact. The division, led by Helman Sitohang, aims to earn 700 million francs from private banking in the region in 2018.The lower profit outlook in international wealth management, led by Iqbal Khan, reflects lower performance fees in asset management, the bank said. Credit Suisse expects to grow in emerging markets while also increasing profit from its European operations.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Global markets, a chief detractor in Credit Suisse’s turnaround, has “substantially completed” its restructuring, the bank said. Credit Suisse in September promoted Brian Chin to head the unit, replacing Timothy O’Hara. The unit, which had blindsided Thiam with a buildup of illiquid trading positions that sparked a first-quarter loss, still targets a return on regulatory capital of 10 percent to 15 percent in 2018.Credit Suisse estimated restructuring costs this year of about 600 million francs, with the same amount in 2017. The financial toll from turning around the bank will halve in 2018, to 300 million francs. Most of the restructuring costs are due to severance pay. Credit Suisse said it had cut 6,050 jobs this year, exceeding its target of 6,000 positions.Credit Suisse’s bad bank, called the strategic resolution unit, will have a pretax loss of 1.4 billion francs in 2018 and 800 million francs in 2019, the firm said. By then it also strives to reduce the unit’s capital consumption by about 80 percent.