For most of Silicon Valley, Donald Trump&apos;s U.S. presidential election win was jarring. Google is using its aftermath to burnish its bona fides in Trump&apos;s political orbit. The Alphabet Inc. unit posted a job listing for a manager of "conservative outreach" on its policy team 10 days after the election. The company is searching for a Washington veteran to "tell Google’s story in an elevator or from a podium," according to the description on Google&apos;s career website. "As a member of Google&apos;s Public Policy outreach team, you will act as Google’s liaison to conservative, libertarian and free market groups," the listing reads. "You are part organizer, part advocate and part policy wonk as you understand the world of third-party non-governmental advocacy organizations."




 Exclusive insights on technology around the world.
 

 Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Google has hired former Republican operatives before and this job isn&apos;t new (the previous policy specialist in the role once worked on Mitt Romney&apos;s 2012 presidential campaign). But the listing suggests the internet giant is mobilizing to push its multi-faceted agenda with the incoming administration. Google is likely to voice positions on several key political issues, including data encryption, antitrust, telecom rules and autonomous vehicles. On several of them, Trump&apos;s policies are uncertain.The company has kept relatively quiet since the election. In an interview with the BBC the week after, Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai noted how the results reflected a deep divide in the U.S.  "We need to figure out how to constructively engage with the new administration and hear the voices of people," Pichai told the British broadcaster. A Google spokesman declined to comment on Monday. Prior to the election, Eric Schmidt, Alphabet&apos;s chairman, was more vocal, expressing willingness to help Hillary Clinton&apos;s campaign, according to e-mails obtained by WikiLeaks. He was photographed at a Clinton gathering on the evening of the election wearing a "staff" badge.Although Google eschewed lobbying in its early years, it has turned into one of the largest corporate forces in Washington. Alphabet has spent $11.9 million so far this year, ranking it in the top five among U.S. companies, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Its top lobbyist is Susan Molinari, a former Republican Congresswoman from New York. Her father, Guy Molinari, a luminary in the state&apos;s party, spoke out against Trump in 2015. In September, he told a New York City newspaper he was reversing his position and endorsing the party&apos;s nominee.