Global lenders are staying away from Turkish syndicated loans.The country’s banks are renewing foreign-financing facilities at the slowest pace since January 2013, according to data compiled by Turkey’s central bank. Almost every Turkish bank that’s rolled over a syndicated loan in the second half of this year has seen a decline in the number of participating lenders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Overseas lenders are reining in credit after the government seized companies and fired workers allegedly connected to a plot to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Foreign banks on syndicated lending deals to Turkish lenders are shrinking, with Barclays Plc and Nomura Holdings Inc. recently declining to renew funding on a $1.1 billion syndicated loan of Turkiye Is Bankasi AS, a person with knowledge of the matter said.“Foreign banks are reducing their lines to Turkey due to rising country risk, deteriorating macro balances and Fitch downgrade expectations," Cagdas Dogan, a banking analyst at BGC Partners Inc. in Istanbul, said by phone. “The decline in foreign-debt rollover ratios will not threaten the health of the banking sector, but will reduce its appetite to extend loans.”The increased risk aversion is a particular challenge for Turkey’s banking industry because of its reliance on overseas borrowing for funding and comes after downgrades that left Fitch Ratings Ltd. as the only major credit-rating company with Turkey at investment grade.The rollover ratio for long-term loans, a measure of the rate at which banks renew their foreign financing, slumped to 81 percent in September from an average of 155 percent in the first half of the year, the central bank data show.The slump in foreign interest comes amid pressure from Erdogan on banks to extend more loans at cheaper costs and with a loan-to-deposit ratio that stood at 124.5 percent at the end of the third quarter, compared with 123.4 percent at the end of 2015.Signs of reluctance from foreign lenders are emerging. Abu Dhabi’s First Gulf Bank PJSC also decided not to participate in the Turkiye Is Bankasi AS loan in September after forming part of a 42-strong lending group in 2015, according to the person familiar. JPMorgan Chase & Co. also cut its share of the loan by 90 percent to $5 million from $50 million, the person said.The number of banks that participated in Isbank latest syndicated loan issuance declined to 29, while at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS it dropped to 24 from 33 previously, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At Yapi Kredi Bankasi AS, the lenders shrank to 33 from 38, and at Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS to 34 from 39, the data.“Isbank continues carrying out successful syndications,” the Istanbul-based bank said in an e-mailed statement. Nomura, JPMorgan, Barclays and FGB declined to comment. While syndicated loans provide low returns, they are seen as a foot in the door for other business, such as international bond sales, BGC’s Dogan said. The decline in foreign banks participating in the group facilities may also be due to the fading prospects of doing business with Turkish lenders in future, and a Turkish lira that has weakened 16 percent against the dollar this year, he said.