David Davis.Brexit Secretary David Davis said he doesn’t want a transitional deal with the European Union to cushion the impact of Britain leaving the bloc, according to notes of a private meeting with business leaders.Davis said he might agree a transition deal if the EU requested one during negotiations, but is not interested in negative special pleading from companies, according to a record of his Nov. 15 meeting with the City of London Corporation, which runs the capital’s financial district.David DavisWhen Davis addressed the possibility of a transition deal, he “stated that he was ‘not really interested’ in the discussion around the arrangements” and “did not foresee any benefits” in the proposal, according to the meeting note, seen by Bloomberg. Davis is concerned the idea of a transition period “could be perceived as a delay to the process,” which is “not something the government can abide,” the document said.The government sought to distance itself from the claims, contained in a memo written by City of London staff after last month’s meeting, insisting they do not properly represent official policy or the minister’s views.Despite attempts to downplay the report, the account of the meeting threatens to undermine Prime Minister Theresa May’s desire to keep her Brexit plans secret until formal negotiations with the EU begin next year. Davis’s dismissal of calls for a transition deal echoes warnings from senior government officials, which Bloomberg reported in October, that there would be no special favors for banks.In recent weeks, May and her team have tried to appear more sympathetic to the concerns of businesses. On Nov. 21, the premier hinted she is open to a transitional deal to help the City navigate Brexit, telling the Confederation of British Industry she doesn’t want a “cliff edge” departure from the EU.In the memo, reported earlier on Friday in the Financial Times, Davis was said to be concerned by “an argument that the stability of the EU could be compromised by the U.K.’s ‘sudden’ departure” from the bloc. “The regulatory upheaval and potential for systemic risk could result in serious negative consequences for the whole of the EU,” it said. “He went on to say that if the EU, rather than U.K. stakeholders, want to have transitional arrangements he would be ‘more in favor. I will be kind.”’Davis “also queried whether the employees of U.S. banks warning of relocating in Europe would actually relocate, given the unattractiveness of Frankfurt and other cities in the EU, in comparison with London. As a result, jobs will go back to New York not Europe,” the memo said.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The prime minister’s spokeswoman, Helen Bower, told reporters in London that the notes are “an interpretation of a discussion - they’re not a proper account of the secretary of state’s view.” A statement from Davis’s ministry said: “He has made clear that the U.K. wants a smooth and orderly exit from the EU, a new partnership that works in the interests of both parties, and is looking at all options to deliver that.”The City of London Corporation said in an e-mailed statement: “This note was the City’s interpretation of our meeting with the secretary of state for exiting the European Union last month. It was a constructive discussion on the opportunities and challenges that leaving the EU presents to the financial services industry, and how the City can work closely and positively with the government.”