NavdyHarman International Industries Inc. invested in a startup that makes projection displays that sit in front of car windshields, signalling a new area it plans to explore under the ownership of Samsung Electronics Co.The investment in Navdy Inc. is Harman’s first since agreeing to sell itself to Samsung for $8 billion last month. Harman will work with the startup to sell co-branded devices next year, said Doug Simpson, Navdy’s chief executive officer.Navdy’s hardware is placed above the steering wheel and projects information from the driver’s smartphone onto a transparent screen, so the driver can see updates at a glance. The heads-up display, which sells for $799, can deliver driving directions, text messages, song titles and alerts about incoming phone calls.




 Exclusive insights on technology around the world.
 

 Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Harman is one of the biggest suppliers of infotainment systems to the automotive industry. Navdy could help Harman push other services by, for example, telling drivers when their cars need a mechanic, which could drive purchases of Harman’s auto parts. The line between the automotive and technology industries is blurring as cars come to rely more heavily on software for ride-hailing and autonomous driving. Apple Inc. is developing its own self-driving car system, and last year it acquired Metaio GmbH, a maker of augmented reality products that counts Volkswagen AG and BMW AG among its biggest customers.Simpson said Navdy had been in talks with automakers about an investment before opting to take money from Harman. The tie-up should help the startup sell its devices directly to carmakers, he said. Navdy has sold about 20,000 pre-orders since 2014.Navdy declined to comment on the size of Harman’s investment. The San Francisco company said it has raised a total of $42 million from investors, which also include chipmaker Qualcomm Inc. and several venture capital firms.