Volkswagen AG’s dieselgate scandal took another turn as the European Union threatened to sue Germany, the U.K. and five other nations for failing to set up penalty systems to deter car manufacturers from violating car emissions rules.It’s the first legal action from the European Commission since the news broke about Volkswagen’s cheating on tests of smog-causing emissions a year ago. The regulator has been battling with the carmaker separately over compensation for EU car owners who had been affected by VW’s admission that it used software on about 11 million vehicles that allowed it to cheat on pollution tests.“Abiding by the law is first and foremost the duty of car manufacturers,” EU Internal Market Commissioner Elzbieta Bienkowska said in a statement Thursday. “But national authorities across the EU must ensure that car manufacturers actually comply with the law.”The EU said Germany and the U.K. broke the law by refusing to disclose, when requested, all the technical information gathered in their national investigations regarding potential nitrogen oxide emissions irregularities in cars by VW and other car manufacturers on their territories.The commission sent letters of formal notice on Thursday to the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Greece for failing to introduce penalty systems for breach of EU emission rules in their national laws. It also opened infringements against Germany, Luxembourg, Spain and the U.K. for not applying such sanctions despite VW’s use of illegal software. Those four countries issued car-type approvals for the German company in Europe.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




VW’s cheating, which the U.S. uncovered and led Germany to order an EU-wide recall of 8.5 million Volkswagen vehicles, has left policy makers in Europe scrambling to patch up regulatory holes that threaten a “clean-diesel” strategy dating to the 1990s. The issue is politically thorny in Europe because more than half the cars in the region are powered by diesel -- which causes more urban pollution than does gasoline while having less global-warming impact -- and because many member states have struggled to meet clean-air goals meant to reduce human sicknesses and premature deaths.The governments have two months to answer the commission.