What's Next for Goldman Sachs If Gary Cohn Leaves?Donald Trump’s administration, already seen as the wealthiest in modern history, is about to get even richer when Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Gary Cohn is named the president-elect’s chief economic policy adviser.Cohn, the firm’s chief operating officer and once considered the heir apparent to Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, was said to be Trump’s top selection for the post. He would walk away from Goldman Sachs with $266 million of stock and awards amassed during more than a quarter century at the investment bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.And he’s not even close to being among Trump’s wealthiest.Already Trump has announced he’ll nominate for commerce secretary Wilbur Ross, the private equity titan with a $2.9 billion net worth. Betsy DeVos has been chosen for secretary of education. Her father-in-law Richard DeVos has a net worth of $4.8 billion, thanks mostly to his ownership of direct-seller Amway, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.




 Your cheat sheet on life, in one weekly email.
 

 Get our weekly Game Plan newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 




News of Cohn’s selection immediately follows that of Andrew Puzder, the CEO of closely held Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr. parent CKE Restaurants Inc. The opponent of a $15 minimum wage will be nominated for labor secretary. Linda McMahon, the co-founder of World Wrestling Entertainment Inc., shares a net worth of at least $1.35 billion with her husband, Vince. She’s slated to lead the Small Business Administration.Jake Siewert, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to comment. Spokesmen for Trump didn’t immediately return requests for comment.Among the richest members of the administration is Trump himself. The president-elect has a net worth of $3 billion, according to a July assessment by Bloomberg.“You’d have to go back to Herbert Hoover to see a cabinet that was this reliant on wealthy people,” said Robert Dallek, a presidential historian. “But the wealth has changed. Millionaires have become billionaires.” The swelling net worth of Trump’s cabinet heads and advisers has triggered concerns that he’s distanced himself from promises to deliver policy fixes for the “forgotten man.”“I want people that made a fortune because now they’re negotiating with you,” Trump said at a Thursday event in Des Moines, Iowa. “It’s no different than a great baseball player or a great golfer.”Cohn, 56, would be the third and most senior Goldman Sachs alumnus to take a prominent role in the incoming administration despite the president-elect’s criticism of Wall Street and the bank in particular on the campaign trail. Cohn follows Goldman Sachs alumni Stephen Bannon, who will be Trump’s chief strategist, and Steven Mnuchin, who has been chosen to lead the Treasury Department.Cohn’s takeaway from the bank is bolstered by a severance policy for executives who leave for government service. For Cohn, that’s $58.5 million, mostly in stock awards that he’d receive ahead of normal vesting schedules.Putting billionaires in the cabinet is not without precedent. Penny Pritzker, an heiress of the Hyatt Hotels fortune, serves as President Barack Obama’s secretary of commerce, and has a net worth of $3.1 billion.