Russia sold an $11.3 billion stake in its largest oil producer to commodity trader Glencore Plc and Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund in a triumph for President Vladimir Putin, who announced the deal on state television personally. In a surprise deal that leaves EU sanctions against Russia looking pretty threadbare, the buyers will share a 19.5 percent stake in state-run Rosneft PJSC, which pumps almost 5 million barrels a day. The biggest investment in Russia since the crisis in Ukraine, it also marks a stunning return to dealmaking for Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg little more than a year after his company was forced to raise cash from shareholders.The deal was possible “only thanks to your personal contribution,” Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin told Putin on Russian television. The company held talks with more than 30 potential buyers from Europe, America, Asia and the Middle East, he said.Putin touted the deal as the “largest acquisition in the oil and gas sector in the world in 2016.”“The negotiated price is in our view the maximum possible with the minimum discount of five percent to market prices,” Sechin said. “One of the largest European banks” will provide financing, without specifying which one, he added.Russia is privatizing assets to raise money after the collapse in oil prices sapped government revenue. Putin had said in October that, in the absence of buyers willing to pay an acceptable price, Rosneft may buy back its own shares.“What can I say? It’s super and very surprising,” said Andrey Polischuk, an analyst at Raiffeisen Bank in Moscow. “It’s a good signal for Rosneft investors as Sechin has managed to find the buyers and the company will avoid huge spendings on buying back its own shares.”The deal marks the third big acquisition for Glasenberg after he led the takeover of mining company Xstrata and grain merchant Viterra. Glasenberg has transformed Glencore, which he floated only five years ago, into a commodities trader with a huge mining footprint and, now, a large oil production base.On Qatar’s part, the deal marks a rare venture of an OPEC country into Russia, the world’s second=largest oil producer. Moscow has joined forces with OPEC, saying last week it will cut output by 300,000 barrels a day to add onto the 1.2 million barrels a day that the oil-producers group announced. Qatar played a key role in the OPEC cut, acting as a go-between Saudi Arabia, Iran and Iraq and hosting meetings including oil ministers from Riyadh and Moscow.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Russia raised more than $5 billion by selling its stake in oil company Bashneft PJSC to Rosneft in October, though Putin acknowledged that the acquisition of a state producer by another under government control was probably “not the best option.” Sechin, Putin’s longtime ally, persuaded the government that selling his company’s shares after absorbing the Bashneft stake would attract foreign buyers and ultimately boost the price.China and India expressed interest in Rosneft shares earlier this year, without making a formal bid. Financial institutions, oil traders and Japanese investors also showed interest, according to Russia’s Economy Ministry, though no offers were announced.Russia’s Rosneftegaz JSC, 100 percent-owned by the government, had sought to sell as much as 19.5 percent of Rosneft by Dec. 5 for at least 710.8 billion rubles and retain a controlling stake. The treasury planned to receive the money by year-end.Putin warned that the currency influx resulting from the deal could destabilize the foreign-exchange market. He ordered Sechin to work with the Finance Ministry and the central bank to draw up measures to to avoid sharp fluctuations.Rosneft will get a long-term supply contract with Glencore and the partners will coordinate their positions on the market. The three companies will also create a special production venture in Russia and abroad, Sechin said.