Sports Direct International Plc owner Mike Ashley risked reopening wounds with investors as the billionaire announced moves including the $51 million purchase of a corporate plane and another arrangement with a family-owned business.The plane will be delivered in coming weeks and will “facilitate efficiencies relating to the use of management time and the pursuit of the group’s strategic priorities,” Sports Direct said in a statement Thursday. Ashley and senior managers already use a helicopter and a fleet of corporate vehicles to hop between stores and offices.Mike AshleyHaving been criticized this year for failing to disclose a relationship with a company owned by Ashley’s brother, the retailer on Thursday announced an agreement with a company controlled by the billionaire. Double Take Ltd., where Ashley’s daughter Matilda is a director, will grant Sports Direct exclusive licensing rights to the Sport FX cosmetics brand.The disclosures are likely to raise further questions over the running of Sports Direct, which on Thursday reported a 57 percent decline in first-half earnings and trimmed its recently reduced annual forecast. Ashley, the company’s majority shareholder, has “no current intention” of taking the business private, Sports Direct said in the results statement. The shares fell as much as 8.5 percent.“Sports Direct is one of a small minority of companies that appear to be doing British business reputational damage,” said Oliver Parry, head of corporate governance at the Institute of Directors. “It all comes down to corporate excess -- that’s things like buying corporate jets.”After a year in which Ashley was accused by lawmakers of presiding over appalling working conditions in the company’s warehouse, the billionaire said his main priority will be looking after Sports Direct’s tens of thousands workers.“What matters most to me is how tough the last year has been for the people who work at Sports Direct,” Ashley said. “Our people have once again found themselves in the spotlight through no fault of their own, yet they remain hardworking and loyal. It is for this reason that my immediate priority will be to protect the people at Sports Direct.”Underlying pretax profit fell to 71.6 million pounds ($91 million) in the six months ended Oct. 23, the company said. Earnings for the year will likely to be at the bottom of a range given when Sports Direct cut its guidance two months ago.“The last six months have been tough for our people and performance,” said founder Mike Ashley, who stepped in as chief executive officer when his long-time ally Dave Forsey quit in September. Results were weighed down by the Brexit-induced drop in the value of sterling and the retailer’s assessment of risk relating to its inventory and stores, he said.Sports Direct said it expects full-year underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization to be “around the bottom of the range implied by the company’s announcement of Oct. 7.” The company has forecast profit of 265 million pounds to 285 million pounds on that basis.Following public criticism from investors over shortcomings in corporate governance, the retailer on Thursday moved to strengthen its board with the appointment of investment banker David Brayshaw as a non-executive director.