The November U.S. employment report is set to showcase a labor market that’s healthy enough for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates later this month. President-elect Donald Trump may still find it a “disaster.”Employers added 180,000 workers, accelerating hiring from 161,000, and the unemployment rate held at an eight-year low of 4.9 percent, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Friday’s release from the Labor Department. Wage growth probably remained at a seven-year high.




 Your cheat sheet on life, in one weekly email.
 

 Get our weekly Game Plan newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 




The payrolls report is the last one before the Fed’s December meeting, and while investors see an interest-rate increase as a certainty, policy makers will be looking for affirmation the job market is humming along. At the same time, Trump will have a chance to reconsider -- or repeat -- his characterization of the employment picture as an “economic disaster,” citing figures such as the number of prime-age Americans outside the labor force.Trump “could play it both ways,” Gregory Daco, head of U.S. macroeconomics at Oxford Economics Ltd. in New York. For those who aren’t working or lost their jobs but only found lesser-paying work, the president-elect would reiterate that the economy and labor market are doing poorly. On other data points, such as wages that are perking up, “Trump could say that things will only get better under him.”The billionaire real-estate developer said during the campaign that his policies would create 25 million jobs in a decade, with tax cuts and infrastructure spending fueling growth. His Treasury secretary nominee, Steven Mnuchin, on Wednesday said good jobs and wage increases for the average American worker are “the priority of this administration.”Some weak spots remain. Economists will watch the participation rate, which indicates the share of working-age people who are employed or looking for work. It fell in October and is near the lowest level since 1978, with the longer-term slide mainly due to retiring baby boomers.Trump has pointed to the many Americans who remain outside the workforce, as well as a broader measure of unemployment, which has made meager progress this year.“He has focused on the pockets of weakness, not on the broader job market strength,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “There’s some reason to be cautious, but there’s no reason to be dark or pessimistic about things. That just doesn’t fit with the data.”November projections of a still-healthy payrolls gain will likely be in sync with recent figures that show filings for unemployment benefits hovering near a four-decade low, elevated job openings and more Americans quitting to take advantage of better positions. Employers are having difficulty finding skilled workers, and wage growth is broadening out.Average hourly earnings are projected to post a 2.8 percent gain in November from a year earlier, matching October’s pace that was the fastest since 2009.“The labor market’s strength will reach further down as it tightens,” Zandi said. “The pockets of weakness will be smaller and fewer and farther. If we do nothing on the policy front, we’re still good.”Trump, though, may point out that more steps are needed to beef up the labor market. In October, almost 6 million employees were in part-time jobs but wanted full-time work. That statistic, known as working part-time for economic reasons, has been little changed this year and remains above its pre-recession level.Manufacturing payrolls also will matter politically. Trump had whipped up support among Rust Belt voters as he threatened to tear up trade agreements and bring jobs back from overseas. The Bloomberg survey predicts factories cut 3,000 workers in November, after slashing 9,000 the previous month.Even with these weaknesses, the Fed is likely to raise interest rates at its Dec. 13-14 meeting “barring a total collapse,” Sam Bullard, senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina, said in a note. Overall, “another solid monthly hiring performance is expected.”Oxford’s Daco said he expects the economy will keep creating jobs at a solid pace in coming months, and fiscal stimulus would provide an additional boost.“The statistics can say anything, and I think Trump is using that to his advantage and will continue to do so,” Daco said. “We’ll gradually see a shift from the negative rhetoric around the labor market toward a more positive one as he comes into power. As president, he might have a more favorable tune on the labor market.”