Oman, the largest Arab oil producer that’s not an OPEC member, plans to sell between $1.5 billion to $2 billion of bonds internationally in 2017 to plug a deficit caused by low crude prices.“There’s an appetite still and I think even when interest rates are raised there will still be appetite," Ali Hamdan Al-Raisi, vice president for banking oversight at Oman’s Central Bank, said in an interview at an event in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday. The size and exact timing hasn’t yet been finalized, he said. The sultanate sold $2.5 billion worth of bonds in June in its first such sale since 1997 and tapped the bonds for an additional $1.5 billion in September. The country also raised $1 billion from the international loan market in January to help bolster its finances. 




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Oman joins several other governments and companies from the six-nation Gulf Corporation Council tapping the bond markets as they cope with low oil prices. The region is home to about a third of global crude reserves. Saudi Arabia sold $17.5 billion in bonds in a three-part bond sale in October, Qatar, the world’s biggest liquefied natural gas exporter, raised $9 billion this year while Abu Dhabi raised $5 billion in April.Oman’s budget deficit widened 55 percent year-on-year in September to 180.5 million rials. The country plans to raise 600 million riyals in local debt next year, Al-Raisi said.