President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is inching closer to concentrating power in his office as Turkey’s governing party officially proposed an executive presidency to the parliament.The bill calls for a referendum to amend the constitution, changing Turkey’s political framework from a parliamentary system to a presidential one. It was submitted on Saturday after the AKP reached agreement over its scope with nationalist opposition party MHP, from which it needs support to authorize a referendum on the measures.Erdogan has faced criticism over his increasingly authoritarian style and sway over the Justice and Development Party despite his official non-partisan role. Under the amendment, he will be able to restore his ties to the ruling party, known as AKP, that he had co-founded 15 years ago. There will be no prime minister under the new system if amendments are approved.The bill, which may come up for a vote early next year, needs to get at least 330 votes in the 550-seat parliament to go to a referendum. The public ballot must take place within 60 days of the vote in the parliament.The 62-year-old Erdogan says July’s failed attempt by a group within the military to grab power is proof that the nation would be more stable if ruled from the presidential palace. There is a “growing support” among the people for a system change, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on his plane to Moscow earlier this week, according to the state-run Anadolu Agency. Yildirim’s office will cease to exist in the new system.If amendments are approved, there will be an election for both lawmakers and the head of state on Nov. 3, 2019 and there would be a two-term limit for the president, according to a copy of the proposal seen by Bloomberg. Renewal of elections would be possible if three-fifths of the parliament voted in favor of it and such a decision during the president’s second term would allow him to run for the same office one more time. President’s powers in announcing emergency rule status, appointing high-level bureaucrats are also expanded with the proposal.“It seems likely that this will become a one-man state with no balance of power,” Jenny White, a professor at Stockholm University Institute for Turkish Studies said in an e-mail on Dec. 2. “President Erdogan as supreme leader might well bring stability at the expense of democracy and human rights.”The number of seats in the parliament would rise to 600 from 550 now and the age at which lawmakers can be elected will be reduced to 18 from 25. The president will be able to issue executive decrees and appoint both his own deputies and ministers. Two-thirds of the parliament would need to vote in favor for the president to face charges at Turkey’s highest court.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Erdogan has used emergency powers declared after the July 15 coup attempt to fire or suspend tens of thousands of civil servants and shut down more than a dozen media outlets on national security grounds. Turkey’s Western allies criticized him for using autocratic methods to squelch dissent while the European Parliament recommended suspending the nation’s membership talks with the EU after Erdogan rallied support to reinstate death penalty for terror convicts.Read more: EU Refugee Deal Under Strain as Erdogan Threatens to Open GatesAn executive presidency under Erdogan formalizes his one-person rule and “more importantly, it formalizes the erosion of separation of powers that we have seen in the last couple of years,” Henri Barkey, a Turkey expert at the Wilson Center, a Washington policy group, said in an e-mail on Dec. 2.“In Erdogan’s case, the institutional powers he will formally get are all the more enhanced because of his charismatic personality and hold over both his party and a very large constituency,” Barkey said.