Delta Air Lines Inc. passengers flying coach between New York City and California may get a treat rarely seen on U.S. flights since 2010: free meals.The airline is testing the complimentary food on flights between New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport and Los Angeles and San Francisco, which are some of the industry’s most competitive and most profitable routes. The Atlanta-based company will decide on a plan after evaluating the results, spokeswoman Catherine Sirna said in an e-mail Wednesday. She didn’t clarify if the meals are hot or cold.“I think Delta’s just trying to see if that helps distinguish the airline, but also if it justifies in the customer’s mind paying slightly higher fares,” said Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst with Atmosphere Research Group. Delta often tries to command a higher fare than competitors by offering better service, he said. 




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Airlines have been adding back some perks coach passengers used to expect in decades past. Continental Airlines was the last U.S. carrier to serve free meals in the main cabin, stopping six years ago. With fierce competition for lucrative transcontinental and international travelers, Delta and American earlier this year restored complimentary meals in coach on their longest routes to Hawaii. Those carriers already had free meals on long-haul international routes.Coach travelers on short-distance U.S. routes are unlikely to see free meals, Harteveldt said. Delta’s tests were earlier reported on industry blogs.