A portrait of Hillary Clinton is set against a now-mournful black background. Canvases are lined with the New York Times edition whose front page announced “Trump Triumphs.”Politics is prevalent at Art Basel Miami Beach this week, where artists and galleries are using the biggest contemporary art fair in the U.S. to express frustration and other feelings in the wake of the presidential election.Haendel’s graphite portrait of Clinton“There is no way we could do anything else,” Timothy Blum, a co-owner of Blum & Poe gallery, said of the decision to place an 8-foot-tall orange lightbox by Sam Durant reading “End White Supremacy” in the most prominent spot of its booth -- across from an entrance to the fair, which drew 77,000 visitors last year. “It’s impossible to come to an art fair now and just show formal work.”Durant’s lightbox reading “End White Supremacy”The fair opened on Wednesday to VIPs including billionaires Dan Loeb and Norman Braman, and while the aisles weren’t as packed as in previous years dealers reported brisk sales for works below $500,000. The show’s 15th edition has 269 top international galleries from 29 countries, with an estimated $2.5 billion to $3 billion of art available at the Miami Beach Convention Center, according to AXA Art, one of the sponsors. Works addressed issues of gender and race inequality as well as the election.“It’s a very different vibe than last year,” said Angela Goding, director of development at MoMA PS1, a nonprofit art institution. “Usually you don’t want to talk about politics, you don’t want to offend anyone. But now the rules have changed.”Gavin Brown’s Enterprise gallery brought three large canvases by Rirkrit Tiravanija with the Nov. 9 edition of the Times overwritten with the words “The Tyranny of Common Sense Has Reached Its Final Stage” in different colors. Priced at $90,000 each, the works sold quickly after the opening.Canvases by Rirkrit TiravanijaKarl Haendel’s graphite portrait of Clinton, priced at $34,000, was a highlight at the Susanne Vielmetter booth. The photo-realist image showed the presidential candidate next to a black rectangle. The artist made it earlier this year. It didn’t sell on opening day.“Initially we thought it would be more celebratory,” said sales director Kevin Scholl.




 Travel with us, drive with us, eat with us.
 

 Get our weekly Pursuits newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Trump connections were also on the scene including the father of Steven Mnuchin, who was tapped this week as the new administration’s nominee for Treasury secretary. Robert Mnuchin, who owns the Mnuchin Gallery, declined to comment on his son’s appointment, only saying “I am proud of him.” His gallery sold a painting by young artist Tauba Auerbach, with the asking price of $550,000, minutes after the opening.Martha Stewart snapped photos of Barbara Kruger’s black-and-white painting “Untitled (Cast of Characters)” listing sycophants, creeps and egomaniacs. Priced at $300,000, the 2016 work sold within hours to a European collector, according to the Sprueth Magers gallery.Piece by Sanford Biggers Art dealer Marianne Boesky gave the main wall of her booth to a sprawling piece by Sanford Biggers that features small, hand-carved African figurines casting massive shadows.“I feel more motivated than ever,” Biggers said. “It’s interesting to see culture shifting to provide new context for the work. It has new resonance because of the current events.”With its blue sky, poolside parties and flowing champagne, Miami in early December is often an escape for the art world. Now many are here seeking solace in art, dealers and collectors said.“It’s very therapeutic,” said Mera Rubell, whose Miami-based family foundation’s annual exhibition is titled “High Anxiety.” “Art is like the last frontier that allows you to think, feel and connect.”Andrew Fabricant of Richard Gray Gallery said the scene is “definitely quieter” this year. “Too many art fairs, too many sales, the election, Zika,” he said. “There’s a whole lot of fatigue factors.”The mood isn’t all glum. Some collectors see the incoming Trump presidency as a probable boost for the art world.“All things being equal, Trump should be good for the art market,” said hedge fund manager Jim Chanos. “The rich getting richer, right?”