Tailors at Henry Poole in 1944.Wednesday, Bloomberg Pursuits profiled Patrick Grant, the owner of Savile Row&apos;s Norton & Sons. For those who want to know more, here&apos;s a primer on the rest of the Row. Henry Poole & Co.Est. 180615 Savile RowThe original house, the one that built the street, remains a family-run business. It started as a specialist in military uniforms—including the ones the British army wore to Waterloo—and invented the tuxedo in 1865 at the request of the future King Edward VII. It’s since expanded east with four shops in Japan and two in China. Huntsman & SonsEst. 184911 Savile RowBegun as a maker of breeches, it pivoted in the 1920s to dressing Bright Young People and thereafter movie idols, most notably Gregory Peck. Its signature personality is Colin Hammick, the cutter (and fit model) who crafted the classic Huntsman coat: high armholes, sharp shoulders, one button. The shop was refreshed after financier Pierre Lagrange purchased it in 2013. 




 Travel with us, drive with us, eat with us.
 

 Get our weekly Pursuits newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Anderson & SheppardEst. 190632 Old Burlington St.Originally at 30 Savile Row and now one block west, the house loosened up the Victorian stiffness of its neighbors by introducing the English drape, which allowed fabric to ripple generously around the swinging arms of Fred Astaire and the curves of Marlene Dietrich. It’s the choice for seriously fashionable suit shoppers, including Tom Ford and Calvin Klein. Chittleborough & Morgan at Nutter’sEst. 196912 Savile RowBetter known simply and boldly as Nutter’s, after founder Tommy Nutter, the “rebel tailor” caught the sartorial beat of swinging London, with vast lapels, nipped waists, and far-out window displays. Nutter’s dressed the Beatles for the cover of Abbey Road (except for George, who preferred jeans). Ozwald BoatengEst. 199530 Savile RowAn heir to the Nutter’s tradition of expanding a client base in striking ways. Like his peers Richard James and Timothy Everest of the New Bespoke Movement, Boateng used bold fabrics and innovative advertising to give tailoring’s golden mile a 21st-century shine.  Cad & the DandyEst. 200813 Savile RowThe millennial’s choice, thanks to a strong web presence and suits that start at about $1,200. This nimble house once made bespoke garage togs for the hosts of Top Gear. Founded by two bankers who lost their jobs in the 2008 financial crisis, it’s too small to fail.