Protestors during a rally denouncing a scandal over President Park's aide in Seoul on Oct. 27, 2016.South Korean President Park Geun-hye faces an impeachment vote on Friday after lawmakers brought a 40-page measure accusing her of bribery, abuse of power and violating her constitutional duties before the National Assembly. Allegations that her old friend, Choi Soon-sil, peddled influence through their relationship added to public disenchantment with the nation’s first female president. Park said this week she was willing to resign in April. Now, she may not get the chance.Choi has been arrested on suspicion of attempted fraud over allegations that she used her relationship with Park to pressure some of the country’s biggest corporations into donating tens of millions of dollars to her foundations. Park has apologized three times over the scandal in national televised addresses, and has acknowledged she consulted Choi on “certain documents.” Her lawyer has rejected the prosecutors’ allegations, saying they are based on “imagination and conjecture.”Choi is the daughter of a man who ran a little-known religious sect and founded an anti-communist group that Park helped run. The two women formed a friendship when Park became acting first lady for her father, Park Chung-hee, after her mother died during a botched assassination attempt on the dictator in 1974. Park has long been hounded by allegations that she allowed the Chois to take advantage of her high profile to extract money from businesses -- claims she denied in her media address.Park’s response to the crisis has fanned suspicions that Choi may have meddled more extensively in government affairs, as well as peddling influence over businesses. Hundreds of thousands of people have taken to the streets of Seoul in recent weeks to call for Park’s resignation and arrest. Even voters in Park’s political stronghold in the southeast of the country are turning against the president.While the constitution protects a president from indictment, it allows for impeachment by a two-thirds vote of the 300-member National Assembly. Today’s motion was endorsed by 171 lawmakers, just 29 shy of the number of votes necessary to clear the parliament. A faction of Park’s ruling Saenuri Party has pledged to join the opposition, which would give it just enough support to pass. After initially showing few signs that she planned to step down, with about 15 months left in her single five-year term, she said this week she was willing to resign before her term ended and asked parliament to decide the direction of a power transition.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




South Korean law stipulates that the Constitutional Court should make the final decision within 180 days after it receives an impeachment proposal from the National Assembly. At least seven judges are required to try an impeachment case, while at least six have to vote for the proposal to be eventually passed. Park’s resignation would trigger a presidential election within 60 days, with the prime minister taking over as interim leader.Asia’s fourth-largest economy already faces questions about its ability to maintain economic growth. Its shipbuilding and steel industries are faltering while electronic giants like Samsung Electronics face stiff competition from Chinese manufacturers. The political instability may add to what Bank of Korea Governor Lee Ju-yeol calls uncertainties. It may also deepen worries about long-term growth prospects and the country’s competitiveness. That said, Korean stocks have not missed out on the global equity lust of the past month, attracting inflows from international funds.