Pedestrians walk past an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in TokyoThe Trump rally is running out of steam as fresh concerns over the U.S. outlook and stability in Europe weigh on the dollar and global equities.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index is headed for its first weekly drop since Donald Trump’s election to the presidency fueled bets on increased fiscal stimulus and a subsequent bounce in U.S. growth. A selloff in technology shares flowed through into Asia, driving declines in Japan, Australia and South Korea. The yen extended its rebound against the greenback amid caution ahead of key American jobs data, Italy’s weekend referendum and Austria’s presidential vote, and gold also rallied. Bonds in the region extended their slide as crude oil rose above $51 a barrel following the OPEC deal. Copper futures retreated. Developed-market stocks are also on track for their first weekly retreat since the U.S. vote, amid a let up in support for so-called reflation trades, which gained ground as Trump’s victory burnished the U.S. economic outlook and helped odds on an interest-rate hike this month to 100 percent. Billionaire bond fund manager Bill Gross said investors betting on a Trump windfall are misguided, with any benefits from increased stimulus likely to be temporary. Italy’s referendum on reducing the power of the Senate is also weighing on risk sentiment, given a win for ‘No’ could result in the government’s ouster.“Markets have rallied pretty strongly and we had three fantastic weeks but buying pressure certainly looks exhausted,” James Woods, global investment analyst at Rivkin Securities in Sydney said by phone. “We will see some corrective declines and profit taking, and from a technical perspective, allowing momentum indicators to unwind before gains can be sustained.”As well as the U.S. nonfarm payrolls report, Friday brings updates on Australian retail sales and Thai foreign reserves. StocksCurrenciesBonds