BlackRock's Watson: U.S. Treasuries at Fair ValueWant to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up here.The bond market&apos;s 30-year bull run may be ending, OPEC strikes a deal, and China&apos;s economy is doing just fine. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.The Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate Total Return Index had its worst month since its 1990 inception in November, as the rout saw $1.7 trillion wiped off the index&apos;s value during the month. The outlook isn&apos;t great for fixed income either, with European sovereign debt looking vulnerable, Chinese rates continuing to rise, and Treasuries under pressure from the administration change. The first thing that happened yesterday, after details of the first OPEC deal to cut production in eight years were made public, was an 8 percent rally in oil. While a barrel of West Texas Intermediate for January delivery was trading at $49.85 at 5:14 a.m. ET, questions are already being asked about how sustainable any rally will be through 2017, as increasing shale output and investments in Asia and the North Sea are likely to keep a lid on crude. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is more bullish, saying oil could break through $60 a barrel in the first half of next year, if the deal is fully implemented.China’s official factory gauge climbed to 51.7 in November, matching the highest level since 2012, while non-manufacturing PMI climbed to 54.7. Chinese shares trading in Hong Kong rose to a two-month high after those positive economic data were released. There are still concerns about the sustainability of growth there, as regulatory changes continue to drive hot-money flows from sector to sector. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent, while Japan&apos;s Topix index added 0.9 percent as the OPEC deal lifted energy stocks and the weak yen boosted exporters. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.3 percent lower at 5:30 a.m. ET as investors await this weekend&apos;s Italian referendum. S&P 500 futures slipped 0.1 percent. 




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Unemployment in the euro zone dropped to 9.8 percent, the lowest level since July 2009, while U.K. manufacturing expanded less than forecast as inflationary pressures continue to build. Ahead of tomorrow&apos;s big jobs number, there is a raft of U.S. data to look forward to. At 8:30 a.m. ET weekly jobless claims numbers are released, with Markit manufacturing PMI due at 9:45 and ISM manufacturing at 10:00. Today, we will also get U.S. auto-sales numbers for November, with analysts expecting 17.7 million total.This is what&apos;s caught our eye over the last 24 hours.