Two ratings firms are assigning AAA ratings to bonds backed by new riskier home loans, one of the few times such securities have won top grades since the financial crisis, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg.Fitch Ratings and DBRS Inc. are giving the ratings to more than $210 million of bonds backed by loans made by Caliber Home Loans, a unit of Lone Star Funds, and by loans from Sterling Bank & Trust and LendSure Mortgage Corp. The bonds are partially backed by mortgages in which the lender verified a borrower’s income with bank statements rather than tax returns. Another ratings firm, Moody’s Investors Service, recently called out those types of mortgages as risky.Most of the loans backing the bond are not qualified mortgages, meaning they do not adhere to U.S. government guidelines designed to give borrowers extra protections against their lenders. Those guidelines include how much debt a borrower can have.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The top grades may be a sign that big Wall Street firms and lenders are becoming comfortable again with riskier home borrowers. Lone Star had hired Fitch and DBRS for a similar mortgage-bond sale earlier this year and received credit ratings as high as A. A Lone Star spokeswoman referred to ratings commentary offered by DBRS. A spokesman for Fitch didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.Since the crisis, apart from government-backed home loans, mortgage-bond issuance has been limited to bundling old, soured debt or big loans made to wealthy individuals. The Lone Star unit is one of a handful of companies trying to test broader investor appetite for riskier mortgage credit.About 71 percent of the loans in the latest transaction were made by the Lone Star unit, and 22 percent were made by Sterling Bank & Trust. LendSure made about 6.5 percent of the loans. Credit Suisse is the lead underwriter on the deal. A spokesman for Credit Suisse declined to comment.