Iraq can’t count on the self-governed Kurds in the north or international oil companies to help it cut crude production as promised at an OPEC meeting last week. That may leave the country with no option but to slash state-controlled supplies to comply with its quota.Under the deal the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries reached last Wednesday, Iraq must reduce crude output by 210,000 barrels a day from October levels. But to achieve that, OPEC’s second-biggest producer may have to rely on the crude it fully controls. International companies including BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc pump most of Iraq’s oil, and the semi-autonomous Kurds contribute more than half a million barrels a day on top.“It looks complex for Iraq to deliver all the cuts it signed up to,” Richard Mallinson, an analyst at consultant Energy Aspects Ltd, said by phone from London. “In most cases the international oil companies will probably not be ready to do it on their fields.”OPEC’s first production cuts in eight years will be a shock for Iraq. The group’s second-largest producer has had no output target since the 1990s as it recovered from conflicts. Iraq resisted having a target now, arguing it needed every dollar to fight Islamic State militants, but relented under pressure from other OPEC members.Iraq is unique among OPEC members in sharing production with a self-governing region that accounts for about 12 percent of its total output. Iraq pumped 4.58 million barrels a day in November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Oil Minister Jabbar Al-Luaibi earlier disputed OPEC’s data on Iraqi production and insisted he wouldn’t agree to a cut. He eventually conceded on both points after coming under pressure in last month’s meeting and placing a phone call to Prime Minister Haider Al-Abadi, who supported the deal, according to two OPEC delegates.For a detailed account of the OPEC meeting, click hereThe Kurdistan Regional Government in northern Iraq controls about 550,000 barrels a day of oil production -- as much as OPEC member Ecuador. The KRG is so far indicating it doesn’t plan to scale back its production.KRG officials haven’t spoken yet to the Oil Ministry in Baghdad about the OPEC deal, Natural Resources Minister Ashti Hawrami said Monday at a conference in London. OPEC’s agreement probably won’t have much effect on the KRG, he said. Iraq’s Oil Ministry spokesman Asim Jihad declined to comment.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The two operating companies pumping the most oil in the KRG have no plans to reduce output. KAR Group, a local company producing about three-fifths of the Kurdish region’s oil, hopes to increase its output next year by 40,000 barrels a day, President Baz Karim said at the London conference. Norway-based DNO ASA, the Kurdish region’s second-largest producer, hasn’t received any indication that it’s expected to pump less oil, Executive Chairman Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani said last week.Outside Iraq’s Kurdish enclave, almost 90 percent of the country’s oil production comes from fields operated by international companies, Oil Ministry data from September show. These companies could charge the ministry a curtailment fee under their contracts if they are ordered to decrease production, Deputy Oil Minister Fayyad Al-Nima said in October at a news conference in Baghdad.Iraqi state-run oil companies pump 440,000 barrels a day but export only 280,000 of this through the southern port of Basra. They export the remainder, from northern fields around the city of Kirkuk, to Turkey through a Kurdish-owned pipeline. The Oil Ministry shares the revenue from these sales with the KRG under a deal the two sides reached in August.“Cutting that off would clearly raise tensions with the KRG,” Mallinson said.