U.S. President-elect Donald Trump waves to the crowd after speaking at an event in Cincinnati, Ohio, on Dec. 1, 2016.Russia reached out to U.S. President-elect Donald Trump, calling him a better ally in fighting terrorism than Barack Obama.The Kremlin isn’t waiting out the final six weeks of the Obama presidency and sees future relations with the U.S. as dependent on the “balance of our vested national interests,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Friday in Hamburg. He suggested that a Trump administration will align more closely with Russian objectives.“The commitment to fighting terrorism has been expressed much more clearly than the concrete actions of the Obama administration,” Lavrov told reporters at a meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the German city.Trump made overtures to Russian President Vladimir Putin on the campaign trail, calling for an alliance with the Kremlin to fight Islamic State in Syria and Iraq and hinting at easing sanctions against Russia. Putin has framed his support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad as a campaign against terrorism.Lavrov, who held talks with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on the sidelines of the OSCE meeting, expressed optimism about reaching a deal with the U.S. that could end the Syrian government’s Russian-backed bombardment of Aleppo. U.S. and Russian diplomats and military experts will meet in Geneva on Saturday to thrash out a deal as forces backing Assad tighten their grip on the rebel stronghold.Lavrov described the proposed deal as allowing anti-Assad militants under siege in eastern Aleppo to leave the city with their weapons, either to the Turkish border or to rebel-controlled Idlib southwest of Aleppo. He questioned whether the Obama administration had leverage over the rebel faction and said Turkey might be a more promising interlocutor.“Maybe this channel of cooperation will be more productive than the one with the Americans,” Lavrov said.Kerry said Thursday he was “hopeful” a breakthrough could be reached. He’ll attend a meeting of European and Arab allies on Saturday in Paris to discuss Syria.Western powers are pressing Moscow to use its influence over its Syrian ally to push for an immediate cease-fire that allows humanitarian access to eastern Aleppo and a return to a political process. Lavrov said Syrian military operations had been suspended Thursday to allow some 8,000 civilians to escape, though such a truce couldn’t be confirmed.Syria’s six-year-old war, which has killed about 300,000 people and displaced millions, dominated discussions on the sidelines of the conference in Germany. Several hundred thousand civilians remain trapped in eastern Aleppo.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Russian-backed air strikes have propelled Syrian forces and their allies deeper into rebel-held sections of the city, Syria’s former commercial capital, where they’ve seized 70 percent of territory once controlled by opposition fighters. The U.S., U.K., France, Germany, Italy and Canada issued a joint statement Wednesday condemning the assault and singling out Russia for preventing humanitarian access.Capturing Aleppo, once Syria’s biggest city, would hand Assad control of all major urban centers, marking a turning point in the war. Russia’s military intervention in September 2015 averted the Syrian leadership’s collapse and allowed Assad’s forces to decisively push back rebel forces.