Park Geun-hye.South Korea’s parliament was expected to introduce a motion Thursday to impeach President Park Geun-hye over influence-peddling allegations, the last procedural step necessary before a climactic vote to decide her fate.The 40-page measure accusing Park of bribery, abuse of power and violating her constitutional duties would be brought before the National Assembly in time to allow a planned vote Friday, Youn Kwan-suk, a spokesman for the main opposition Democratic Party of Korea, said by phone Wednesday. National Assembly Speaker Chung Sye-kyun’s office said a vote was scheduled for 2 p.m. Friday.The motion has been endorsed by 171 lawmakers, just 29 shy of the number of votes necessary to clear the 300-seat chamber. A faction of Park’s ruling Saenuri Party has pledged to join the opposition, which would give the measure just enough support to pass.Saenuri’s floor leader, Chung Jin-suk, said after meeting with Park on Tuesday that she was “ready” to accept the result. If 200 or more lawmakers vote in favor, Park would be suspended from power while the constitutional court takes as many as 180 days to review the move. If the court agrees, a presidential election would be held in 60 days, with the prime minister serving as interim leader.The impeachment motion follows weeks of growing political outrage in South Korea over allegations that Park’s longtime friend, Choi Soon-sil, used their relationship to secure tens of millions of dollars of donations from some of the country’s biggest corporations. The case -- and what it has revealed about relations between the country’s ruling elite -- stirred popular anger over corruption and a lack of jobs.Read more: The influence-peddling scandal rocking South Korea




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Repeated denials and apologies from Park -- as well a last-ditch offer to step down in April -- failed to keep hundreds of thousands of protesters from massing outside the presidential compound in Seoul. Amid the drumbeat of media exposes, demonstrations and legislative hearings, enough members of the ruling party defected to raise the threat of impeachment. Her approval rate has sunk into the sink digits.“By losing public confidence, Park can’t run the government and seek public agreement and support for major policies,” the impeachment motion said. It accuses Park of letting Choi -- and her family and associates -- meddle in state affairs “extensively and seriously,” even though they held no government positions.Park, South Korea’s first female president, was elected to a single, five-year term in 2012. She is the daughter of military dictator Park Chung Hee, whose policies are credited with spawning the country’s post-war economic miracle and who was murdered by his intelligence chief in 1979.Accusations against Park include violating her duty to uphold the constitution and abusing her right to appoint public servants. She is also accused of bribery, coercion, leaking of classified information and other wrongdoing. The impeachment motion also raises one of the most emotionally charged claims levied against Park -- that she neglected her presidential duties during the Sewol ferry sinking that left more than 300 people dead in 2014. Questions about her whereabouts during the first critical hours of the disaster, which killed mostly high school students, has fueled anger among anti-Park protesters.On Wednesday, Park’s former chief of staff, Kim Ki-choon, said he didn’t know her schedule that day. The Hankyoreh newspaper reported Tuesday that Park had called in her hairdresser a few hours after learning of the disaster and spent 90 minutes getting her hair done. The presidential office said Wednesday that two hairdressers visited Park, but she spent 20 minutes with them.