SpringOwl Asset Management, a U.S. activist investor that’s been boosting its stake in Amaya Inc., said the $4.1 billion takeover bid by the online gaming company’s founder lacks credibility and has distracted management.SpringOwl Chief Executive Officer Jason Ader said Amaya should move on unless David Baazov increases his cash bid and makes his sources of funding more transparent. In a letter to Amaya’s current CEO and chairman, he also suggested adding three directors to represent shareholders and urged the PokerStars owner to shake off “the undue influence” of Baazov.“If I were making a $4 billion bid and would want the shareholders to take me seriously, I would provide much more transparency to the shareholders,” New York-based Ader said Monday in a phone interview. Amaya “needs to get back to growing the business. It’s competitive out there.”




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Shares in Montreal-based Amaya are trading about 20 percent below Baazov’s C$24 a share bid on concern about the financing for his offer. A Dubai-based investor said last month its purported backing for the deal announced Nov. 14 was given without the firm’s knowledge or consent. In a subsequent filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Baazov said two Hong Kong funds -- Head and Shoulders Global Investment Fund SPC and Goldenway Capital SPC -- agreed to boost their support as a result. The little-known entities make the offer look more suspicious, Ader said.“If we have a credible bid with transparency, then we should consider it,” Ader said. “But the current price seems low and the lack of transparency and the information about the sources of funding raises a lot of questions.”New York-based SpringOwl, which owned less than 1 percent of Amaya as of Sept. 30, has more than doubled its stake since then, according to Ader, a former gaming and casino analyst at Bear Stearns Cos and a director of Las Vegas Sands Corp. The company manages only its own capital.“Mr. Baazov stands behind his offer and intends to continue engaging constructively with Amaya towards a board supported transaction,” his spokesman Riyaz Lalani wrote in an e-mailed response.Baazov stepped down as CEO this year after he was charged in an insider trading probe by Quebec’s securities regulator. He has denied the allegations.In his letter to CEO Rafael Ashkenazi and Chairman Divyesh Gadhia, Ader said Amaya should consider placing Baazov’s shares in a divestiture trust. According to regulatory filings, Baazov is Amaya’s second-largest shareholder, with a 17 percent stake.Amaya received a letter from SpringOwl and “will continue to engage constructively” with the investor, spokesman Eric Hollreiser said in an e-mail. “The Board and management welcome input from all of our shareholders and look forward to continuing to actively engage with them.”The uncertainties surrounding the offer are holding back a valuable company and delaying hiring, according to Ader, who in his letter called Baazov’s bid “a continued attempt by a discredited former executive to capitalize on the Amaya situation at other shareholders’ expense.”Amaya rose 0.6 percent to C$19.22 at 12:21 p.m. in Toronto for a market value of C$2.79 billion ($2.1 billion).