Serra: Italy Impossible to Govern, Needs New Election LawThe emphatic rejection of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi’s proposed constitutional reform returned Italy to a state of political and economic uncertainty. Now that Renzi has handed in his resignation -- and until he decides whether he’s willing to stay on -- President Sergio Mattarella must establish whether the governing Democratic Party is stable enough to support another prime minister. He’s seeking to avoid early elections, which could open the door to the anti-establishment Five Star Movement.Read more: What Is Plan B for Monte Paschi After Italy Vote?Read more: How Italy’s Elite Plans to Stop the PopulistsRead more: Why Five Star Is Bane of Italy’s EstablishmentRead more: Why Italy’s Bank Problem Challenges the Rule BookThe president’s favored option would be to find another prime minister supported by the Democratic Party, which has a majority in the lower house of parliament. Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan, Senate Speaker Pietro Grasso and Culture Minister Dario Franceschini have been touted as possible successors, though Renzi will remain nominally in power until a replacement has been sworn in.Stability. He never thought that Renzi needed to stake his job on the referendum, as the vote, on paper at least, was about reform and not the government’s performance. Mattarella’s preference would be for a new government to last until early 2018 when the next elections are due, avoiding an early vote that could be a triumph for the Five Star Movement.That’s the big question. The margin of Renzi’s defeat was so big that he could also be forced out as party head. That would significantly complicate and delay any attempt to form a new government.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Founded as a maverick web-based movement in 2009, and led by a former comedian, Beppe Grillo, Five Star has risen to become an insurgent force mixing the EU-skeptic stance of populist parties like France’s National Front with more progressive environmental proposals. It won control of city halls in Rome and Turin in June and has pledged to carry out another referendum, this time on whether Italy should stay in the euro area. It led the opposition to Renzi’s referendum to limit the power of the Senate, the upper house of Italy’s parliament.Immediate elections. It’s running neck and neck with Renzi’s Democratic Party for the first round of a general election and would win a runoff by 53 percent to 47 percent, according to an EMG survey released Dec. 4. Ex-premier Silvio Berlusconi, 80, who leads of the center-right Forza Italia party, is eyeing a possible comeback, potentially backing a new ruling coalition.Apart from forming a new government, the priority for mainstream parties is reform of the electoral law. They are anxious to change lower-house election rules that give an automatic majority of seats to any party that leads with at least 40 percent support in the first round, or to the party that wins a runoff -- which might turn out to be Five Star.The euro fell to the lowest level since March 2015 when Renzi announced on Dec. 5 that he’d resign, though it pared losses by the end of his speech. Italy’s bonds slid amid concern the vote against constitutional reform will embolden nationalist movements, with the yield on Italian notes maturing in a decade surging above 2 percent.The political uncertainty could further complicate Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA’s efforts to raise 5 billion euros as it looks to dispose of 27.7 billion euros in bad debt. Investors may balk at taking part in the offering, which could prompt the state to step in or force the bank to delay its cleanup. This scenario could have a knock-on effect for other lenders such as Banca Carige SpA, a Genoa-based lender under pressure from the European Central Bank to strengthen its balance sheet. Sandro Gozi, Italy’s junior minister for European affairs, told France’s Europe1 radio that the “No” vote is a return to the “political past” but isn’t a risk for Italian banks or euro membership.