Pernod Ricard SA is close to a sale of its Domecq brandy and sherry brands to Emperador Inc. of the Philippines, according to two people familiar with the matter.The deal to sell the brand to Bodega Las Copas, a joint venture owned by Emperador and Gonzalez Byass, could be announced as early as Thursday, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the talks are private. The world’s second-largest spirits maker is divesting the distilled and fortified wines to sharpen its focus on larger, international brands such as Absolut vodka and Chivas Regal scotch, said one of the people.Pernod Ricard declined to comment. Emperador representatives didn’t reply to requests for comment.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




More than 500,000 nine-liter cases of Domecq brandy and sherry were sold last year, according to industry tracker IWSR. Paris-based Pernod Ricard has recently divested brands such as Paddy whiskey and Fris vodka that aren’t central to its business, paving the way to add faster-growing liquors including Monkey 47 and Ungava gins. Last month, the company reported revenue growth that beat estimates as demand for its Jameson Irish whiskey surges.Emperador, a unit of Philippine billionaire Andrew Tan’s Alliance Global Group Inc., is the world’s largest maker of brandy. An acquisition would come about a year after it bought Beam Suntory’s brandy and sherry business in a deal valued at about 275 million euros ($292 million).