Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair is launching a policy institute to provide “thought leadership” to politicians seeking to combat the rise of populism on the right and left in the aftermath of the Brexit vote.“This is not about my returning to the front line of politics. I have made it abundantly clear that this is not possible,” Blair said in a statement on his website on Thursday. “However, I care about my country and the world my children and grandchildren will grow up in; and want to play at least a small part in contributing to the debate about the future of both.”The not-for-profit institute, which is due to start operations next year, will not be a traditional “think tank” but will serve as a “platform designed to build a new policy agenda for the center ground,” Blair said. The organization, which will include a policy unit, will combine resources from Blair’s initiatives on Africa and faith. Part of the focus will be on the debate about Europe, he said, though it will be wider than this.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Blair has been a controversial figure in the U.K. since he stepped down as prime minister in 2007, attracting media scrutiny for his role taking the country into the Iraq War and over his private earnings since leaving office. In July, a seven-year public inquiry criticized Blair for his role in the 2003 conflict, while the Labour Party which he led to three election victories is now run by socialist lawmakers who have rejected his brand of center-ground politics.In the statement, Blair said he wanted to develop “an answer to the new populism of left and right which exploits the anger and drives the world apart. This new populism may differ in some respects between left and right – the left anti-business, the right anti-immigrant – but in others what is remarkable is the convergence between them, especially around isolationism and protectionism, in what is an essentially closed-minded approach” to globalization, he said.