Last year, the commodities crisis was so bad that Glencore Plc had to ask investors for more cash. Now, in sign of how quickly the tide has turned, it’s going to start paying them back.Glencore plans to reinstate a $1 billion dividend in 2017 after skipping two payments as rebounding prices for zinc and coal bolster profits. The company also said earnings from its trading division this year will be at the upper end of its forecast range, thanks to “supportive market conditions” in the second half.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The resumption of dividends marks the culmination of a stunning comeback for the world’s biggest commodities trader, which was forced to fend off comparisons to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2015. Since then, billionaire Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg successfully engineered a recovery with a plan that included a $2.5 billion share sale, asset disposals, mine closures and cost cuts designed to reduce its $30 billion debt burden by almost half.“This is a positive development as we believe investors were not expecting a dividend reinstatement announcement with today’s presentation,” Eugene King, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a note to clients. The dividend equates to about 7 cents a share, he said.Dividends are coming back across the mining industry as producers emerge from austerity to reward shareholders. Brazil’s Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore exporter, this week said it would reinstate dividends next month.BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the two biggest miners, recently shifted to paying out a ratio of profits, meaning that higher commodity prices will lead to bigger returns for investors.Glencore shares added 0.6 percent to 280.95 pence as of 9:53 a.m. in London. The stock has tripled this year, making it the second-best company in the FTSE 100 Index.The dividend next year will total $1 billion, made in equal parts in the first and second half, according to a statement on Thursday. For 2018, the Baar, Switzerland-based company will pay $1 billion annually as well as at least 25 percent of free-cash flow from its industrial division.Glasenberg and Chief Financial Officer Steve Kalmin are expected to give more details about the company’s outlook at a presentation later today.Liberum Capital Ltd. estimates payout of about $1.7 billion in 2018, compared with $2.3 billion delivered to shareholders in 2014. The dividends will be a boon for CEO Glasenberg, the second-largest shareholder. He stands to make $84 million next year and $143 million the year after, based on Liberum’s projections. Glencore last month hit its target for asset sales this year of $4 billion to $5 billion. It plans to reduce net debt, which stood at about $30 billion last year, to between $16.5 billion and $17.5 billion by December.Financial estimates from the statement include:Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is a senior independent non-executive director at Glencore.