Canopy Growth Corp., the largest company in Canada’s rapidly developing marijuana industry, agreed to buy competitor Mettrum Health Corp. for about C$430 million ($321 million) to expand production as the government moves toward legalization.The all-stock deal values Mettrum at C$8.42 a share, the companies said Thursday in a statement, representing a 42 percent premium to Wednesday’s closing price.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Marijuana companies rose in Toronto trading, extending huge gains seen this year, with Canopy’s shares quadrupling. Canada’s plan to legalize recreational use in 2017 has attracted a wave of capital in anticipation of billions of dollars of new revenue. Expectations were further heightened on Wednesday after the country’s Task Force on Marijuana Legalization and Regulation delivered a report to the government on how the drug should be legalized and regulated. The group said its recommendations will be made public in mid-December.If legalization occurs along expected timelines, there will be about 3.8 million legal recreational users in Canada by 2021 with the potential for C$6 billion of sales, Canaccord Genuity analysts Matt Bottomley and Neil Maruoka said earlier this week in a note.Canopy said buying Mettrum will reduce costs, boost its total licensed production area to about 665,00 square feet (61,781 square meters), and add the Mettrum Spectrum brand of marijuana."Mettrum has established a line of cannabis products that work well in a medical context and will transition naturally into a natural and healthy lifestyle market," Bruce Linton, the co-founder and chief executive officer of Smiths Falls, Ontario-based Canopy, said in the statement.Mettrum climbed 34 percent to C$7.93 at 10:52 a.m. in Toronto while Canopy rose 4.7 percent to C$12.35. Among other marijuana companies, Aurora Cannabis Inc. gained as much as 4.1 percent, Aphria Inc. 11 percent, and ICC International Cannabis Corp. -- which listed on the TSX Venture Exchange earlier this week -- 33 percent.The industry is waiting to see what the task force’s report says on guidelines for marketing recreational cannabis and timelines for legalization, said Denis Arsenault, the CEO of OrganiGram Holdings Inc., another Canadian marijuana supplier. There’s a lot of excitement regarding the burgeoning industry, he said."You’d have to go back to literally something like Prohibition to see the birth of an industry like this," Arsenault said Wednesday in an interview with Bloomberg TV Canada.Meanwhile in the U.S., Innovative Industrial Properties Inc., said it sold 3.35 million shares at $20 each in an initial public offering. The company is a real-estate investment trust, or REIT, that focuses on acquiring and managing properties leased to state-licensed producers of medical marijuana. The shares fell to $19.65 in their first day of trading in New York.