The end of Park Gyeun-hye’s presidency can’t come fast enough for investors in South Korean assets, which led gains in Asia on Tuesday on optimism about a looming impeachment vote.Asia’s No. 4 economy is potentially facing its first presidential ouster since the end of military rule, and its corporate leadership is facing an extraordinary round of investigations over ties to the scandal-embroiled Park. The result for the benchmark Kospi stock index? A 1.4 percent jump at the close -- the biggest advance in almost a month."The current government is in a state of vacuum, and investors are anxious about it -- once the impeachment proceeds, the market will have a better picture of where things are headed," said Heo Pil Seok, the Seoul-based chief executive officer at Midas International Asset Management, which oversees around $7.2 billion. "The sooner the new government comes in, the better."The won strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,171.22 a dollar, the biggest gain in Asia after Indonesia’s rupiah. Credit-default swaps on South Korean debt have been falling since mid-November on expectations the beleaguered president, who became entangled in an influence-peddling scandal, would be forced to step down.The Kospi index has fallen 2.6 percent this quarter, and the won has weakened 6 percent against the dollar. The 12-month price-to-earnings ratio for the share gauge has dropped to 10.2 from as high as 11.7 in April. Equities still have room to rebound because they’re cheap, said Chaiwon Lee, chief investment officer at Korea Value Asset Management Co. in Seoul.“Maybe it’s time to buy some large caps with low valuations,” he said. “The rally of the so-called growth stocks -- small and mid caps with high valuations -- has been gradually fading this year.”A faction in Park’s ruling party agreed Sunday to support an impeachment motion set for a vote on Friday, Chang Je-won, a Saenuri Party lawmaker, said on Facebook. That would clear the way for a new government to come in and revive an economy that’s struggled to sustain 3 percent growth in recent years after regularly exceeding 4 percent last decade.The Korean economy is facing headwinds including the prospect of faster inflation and interest-rate increases in the U.S., along with concern President-elect Donald Trump will adopt a protectionist trade policy when he takes office in January.“Right now, a lot of government work has come to a halt due to the investigation,” said Min Gyeong-won, a currency analyst at NH Futures Co. in Seoul. “Park’s impeachment can kick-start the new government” and there are expectations for fiscal policy to support the economy, he said.