Israel’s parliament voted to give official recognition to unauthorized settlement outposts across the West Bank in legislation that provoked Palestinian outrage and was condemned as a land grab by the United Nations.The bill, introduced by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Likud party, passed 57-51 in Israel’s Knesset and must be approved in two more votes to become law. Education Minister Naftali Bennett, a prominent supporter of the legislation and chief of the Jewish Home party, hailed it for demonstrating that a “nation can’t be an occupier of its own land.”The UN’s Middle East envoy, Nickolay Mladenov, had called on Israeli lawmakers to reject the bill, saying in a statement before the vote that it was a violation of Palestinian property rights and “will greatly diminish the prospect of Arab-Israeli peace.” Attorney-General Avichai Mandelblit said an earlier version of the bill was “flagrantly illegal” and he can’t defend it. The current bill retains provisions he criticized.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Thousands of Israelis live in the unauthorized enclaves. Although they were built without following formal procedures, government officials knew they were being erected and gave them infrastructure hookups and military protection. In addition, Israel has built more than 120 authorized West Bank settlements, housing about 400,000 people, that it considers legal and most countries and the UN do not.Likud lawmaker Amir Ohana said the government was acting no differently than countries around the world that “expropriate land for national needs, such as for building railroad tracks.” He called the bill’s passage a declaration by the Knesset that “settlements are in Israel’s interest.”Saeb Erekat, secretary-general of the Palestine Liberation Organization, said the measure was an “attempt to legalize war crimes.” All Jewish settlements in the West Bank are on illegally occupied land, he said, “regardless of any law passed by the Israeli parliament or any decision of an Israeli judge.”