China’s yuan climbed to a four-month high against a trade-weighted index amid speculation the central bank wants to prevent excessive depreciation versus the dollar.A Bloomberg replica of the CFETS RMB Index, which measures the yuan against 13 exchange rates, gained 0.3 percent on Wednesday to 94.95, the highest level since Aug. 1. The yuan was Asia’s second best-performing currency in November, excluding the Hong Kong dollar which is pegged to the greenback. The People’s Bank of China weakened the daily reference rate by 0.14 percent to 6.8958 per dollar on Thursday, about 100 pips stronger than Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s prediction of 6.9060.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Such a wide gap between the official fixing and the forecasts of analysts has often occurred when the Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index gains more than 0.5 percent overnight, spurring speculation the central bank wants to slow depreciation versus the greenback. The yuan also found support from data showing the economy is stabilizing. The official manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose to 51.7 in November, higher than the median estimate of economists.“The increase in the CFETS index reflects the ‘capping effect,’ as the PBOC tries to control the pace of yuan depreciation against the dollar, leading to a relatively better performance versus other currencies,” said Irene Cheung, foreign-exchange strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “On the other hand, the stabilizing Chinese economy is also lending support to the currency.” PBOC Deputy Governor Yi Gang said on Nov. 27 the Chinese currency’s depreciation versus the dollar was largely driven by the strength of the greenback and the market should refer to its performance against a basket of currencies as the economy maintains stable growth. The country’s authorities have also stepped up efforts to curb outflows after the yuan declined to its weakest level versus the dollar in eight years."Unswerving yuan bears" are just being stubborn, as the economy isn’t so bad, Guan Tao, a former official with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, wrote on Thursday in a front-page commentary in the Financial News, a publication managed by the People’s Bank of China.“There are signs that the Chinese authorities are shifting the focus to the yuan index, given the dollar strength recently,” said Tommy Xie, an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. “The CFETS index will become the market focus as the new anchor.”The onshore yuan fell 0.14 percent to 6.8944 per dollar at 12:03 p.m., after touching an eight-year low of 6.9270 on Nov. 24. The currency traded in Hong Kong’s offshore market rose 0.23 percent to 6.9003.— With assistance by Helen Sun