Snyder, the 49-year-old creator of a five-year-old label, had told me that the svelte superstore “represented the brand and also the other brands that relate back to us.” Representing them with aplomb, it sells $180 Drake’s neckties on top of $900 Snyder-branded camel hair coats. He has a shrewd eye for the transporting retail experience, a skill surely honed earlier in career at Ralph Lauren, the company that invented “lifestyle” as we know it. Getting out of the T.S. N.Y. Flagship without buying everything in the store is a special challenge, moreover, because everything in the store is for sale, including the 1stDibs furnishings and, in a way, the marketing experience itself. The current window display matches the outfits on mannequins to those on windowpane paintings by Luke Edward Hall, whose identical illustrations are for sale inside. 




 Travel with us, drive with us, eat with us.
 

 Get our weekly Pursuits newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The suits on the Todd Snyder rack offer a clue about who the Todd Snyder guy is. There’s one cut. It’s called “the Sutton suit” ($600 and up), a name that makes a gentle vague gesture both toward England and the Upper East Side. It’s got two buttons, a notched lapel of uncontroversial width, a subtly slouchy shoulder, and a trim fit—slim enough to be cool but not so slim as to be too cool for school. The Todd Snyder guy is a regular guy who doesn&apos;t care about Fashion too much, but maybe after two cocktails from this store’s in-house bar, he’ll openly scoff at those actual regular guys who don&apos;t care about it at all. I was in there trying on my only purchase—a $55 T-shirt from a limited-edition line, Speakeasy, that pays homage to such classic Manhattan bars as Old Town and Walker’s, authentically crusty joints that are like the reclaimed wood of the 21st-century cityscape. My new T-shirt honors the modified neon sign of the Ear Inn. I was slightly shocked to learn the sales staff didn’t know where the Ear Inn is, or even what it is called. The dude at the register seemed to think it’s called “BAR.”