The anti-Brexit Liberal Democrats unexpectedly gained a U.K. parliamentary seat in a by-election Thursday, a result that may further complicate Prime Minister Theresa May’s efforts to begin the process of leaving the European Union early next year.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Liberal Democrat candidate Sarah Olney won the seat of Richmond Park, a southwest London district that overwhelmingly backed staying in the EU in June’s referendum, according to the BBC. The party, which held the seat until 2010, put Brexit at the heart of the contest, calling for a second referendum on the exit terms achieved by May and threatening to vote in parliament against her plan to trigger the two-year countdown to leaving by the end of March.Pro-Brexit former Conservative lawmaker Zac Goldsmith had been clear favorite with bookmakers to retain the district. He ran as an independent after quitting his seat in October and triggering the contest to protest the decision by May’s government to build a third runway at nearby Heathrow Airport. The constituency lies directly under the Heathrow flight path. May and her fellow Conservative ministers have come under attack from opposition parties for failing to give details of the government’s demands for its post-Brexit deal. A YouGov Plc poll conducted in the middle of last month found only 18 percent of respondents saying the government is doing a good job in negotiating the divorce from the EU.The next big test of May’s policy comes in the U.K. Supreme Court on Monday. Judges will begin a four-day hearing of the government’s appeal against a High-Court ruling that parliamentary approval is needed to invoke Article 50 of the EU’s Lisbon Treaty, the start of the withdrawal process.The Liberal Democrat victory marks the first time the party has gained a seat in a Commons by-election since 2006. The party formed a coalition government with the Conservatives under David Cameron in 2010, but was almost wiped out in the 2015 general election. There have been signs in recent months of a fightback. They quadrupled their share of the vote in a by-election in October in Cameron’s old district of Witney in Oxfordshire.Neither the Conservatives nor the U.K. Independence Party ran against Goldsmith in the by-election, while the pro-EU Greens also stood aside in favor of the Liberal Democrats. With all the main candidates opposing the decision by May’s cabinet in October to approve a third runway at Heathrow, Goldsmith had been relying on his personal popularity among constituents to gain re-election.