Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s government won a deal to lower a tax on earnings from working foreign holidaymakers to 15 percent as the parliamentary year concludes.Greens Leader Richard Di Natale told reporters in Canberra on Thursday his party will support the tax rate, giving the government enough votes in the Senate to pass legislation implementing it. Treasurer Scott Morrison told parliament he welcomed the deal.The accord ends months of squabbling over what the rate should be after the government’s plans were stymied in the upper house, where it lacks a majority and needs support from rival lawmakers to pass legislation. Had the impasse remained, employees on working holidaymaker visas would have been forced to pay a tax of 32.5 percent from their very first dollar of earnings. That contrasts with most employees in Australia who don’t pay any tax at all on their first A$18,200 ($13,500) of income, with higher rates kicking in for earnings above that level.The decision to remove the tax-free threshold for backpackers was announced by the Liberal-National government in its May 2015 budget as a revenue measure. A failure to reduce the backpacker rate from its existing level would put Australia at a competitive disadvantage to lure the itinerant workforce that farmers rely on for seasonal fruit- and vegetable-picking when compared with countries such as neighboring New Zealand, which taxes foreign working holidaymakers at a rate of 10.5 percent.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The government’s bid to target backpackers from overseas was openly criticized by rural voters and members of Turnbull’s Liberal-National coalition, with the tourism industry blaming uncertainty over the issue for a decline in visitors. Backpackers pump A$3.5 billion a year into the economy, according to a report by the Australian branch of the Youth Hostels Association, the world’s largest backpacker accommodation network.The legislation is now poised to be passed by parliament as lawmakers prepare for a two-month hiatus at the end of this week’s sitting. The deal comes a day after the government persuaded lawmakers to pass a law to resurrect a union corruption watchdog, boosting Turnbull’s standing after a tough year in which he was almost voted out of office.Turnbull’s government is seeking alternative revenue sources to boost his government’s drained coffers. Credit assessor S&P Global Ratings has warned that Australia’s AAA score is at risk, with the budget deficit forecast to reach A$37.1 billion next year as a mining boom withers.