Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi at the Quirinale presidential palace to meet Italy's President Sergio Mattarella and offer his resignation in Rome, on Dec. 5, 2016.Matteo Renzi is wavering on whether to stay on as Italian prime minister despite offering his resignation after Sunday’s referendum defeat, according to a senior state official.President Sergio Mattarella wants Renzi to reconsider his decision in order to provide political and economic stability, said the official, who asked not to be named because the issue is confidential.Renzi, 41, could decide to remain in power to push through electoral reform ahead of early elections in the first few months of next year, the official said. The prime minister may offer more clues to his thinking in a speech to the leadership of his Democratic Party at 5:30 p.m. Wednesday in Rome. The next scheduled elections aren’t until early 2018.After losing Sunday’s referendum on constitutional reform, Renzi announced his plans to step down in a televised address. Mattarella asked him to put the resignation on hold at least until the Senate has given final approval for the 2017 budget, due as soon as Wednesday afternoon.With Mattarella due to begin talks with leading political figures as early as Thursday, Renzi’s defeat has triggered speculation in Italy about his plans and the shape of the next government. The premier may discuss the prospects for a grand coalition government or an early election in his speech to his party, Ansa news agency reported, without citing anyone.If Renzi decides to stay on, Mattarella would ask him to go before both houses of parliament for a vote of confidence to guarantee he has a majority, the official said. If the premier does quit, a new government would aim for electoral reform before an election in early 2017, he said.Mainstream parties want to change the electoral law because in its present form it gives an automatic majority to the leading party and they fear the winner could be the anti-establishment Five Star Movement, which wants a referendum on whether to leave euro.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The threat of political instability clouds prospects for Italy’s troubled banks, especially Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA which is trying to complete a 5 billion-euro ($5.4 billion) capital increase. Earlier on Wednesday, Treasury spokesman Roberto Basso denied a report in newspaper La Stampa that Italy is preparing to request 15 billion euros from the European Stability Mechanism to support the country’s struggling lenders.Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan is a prime contender to succeed Renzi. Other candidates include Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni, Transport Minister Graziano Delrio, Culture Minister Dario Franceschini and Senate Speaker Pietro Grasso.