The U.K. would be ready to consider making contributions to the European Union in order to secure the best possible access for trade in the single market, Brexit Secretary David Davis said.Davis said his priority is to ensure that businesses keep the ability to trade and provide services in the European market after the U.K. leaves the EU. Although he did not directly mention making payments, Davis’s comment may be a signal that the U.K. could continue to pay into the EU budget after leaving the bloc in order to keep access to the single market.David Davis“The major criterion here is that we get the best possible access for goods and services to the European market,” Davis told lawmakers in Parliament on Thursday in response to a question about the U.K.’s willingness to make contributions to the EU to keep single-market access.The pound strengthened after his comments, which will be welcomed by banks and other businesses keen to maintain as much access as possible to the single market. Tariff-free access to the EU is “essential” to food producers and retailers, chief executive officers including those from Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc, Dairy Crest Group Plc and J Sainsbury Plc wrote in a letter to The Times published on Thursday. The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders said this week that losing duty-free ties with the EU could lift the price of imported cars by as much as 1,500 pounds ($1,900).Answering questions in Parliament, Davis was asked to explain whether the government would be willing to continue paying into the EU’s budget. He replied that his aim is to ensure that British lawmakers, rather than politicians in the EU, have the final say over how U.K. taxpayers’ money is spent.Wayne David, from the opposition Labour Party, asked Davis: “Will the government consider making any contribution in any shape or form for access to the single market?”In his reply, Davis underlined that he was not commenting on “an individual policy” but setting out a “major criterion.” He told David: “The major criterion here is that we get the best possible access for goods and services to the European market and if that is included in what he is talking about then of course we would consider it.”Asked about Davis’s comments, Prime Minister Theresa May’s spokeswoman said it was a matter for the negotiations. “It will be for the U.K. government to make decisions on how taxpayers’ money will be spent,” Helen Bower told reporters. “We want to get the best possible access” to the single market, she said.The Institute for Fiscal Studies estimated in August that retaining single-market membership could be worth around 4 percent of gross domestic product by 2030, the equivalent of 75 billion pounds.The U.K. paid 13 billion pounds into the EU budget last year and received around 4.5 billion pounds in EU spending, leaving a net contribution of 8.5 billion pounds.Still, European officials may be unimpressed by halfway measures unless the U.K. also bows to other EU demands. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who is also president of the group of euro-area finance ministers, warned that retaining single-market access would cost the U.K. more after Brexit. “Of course we can design new agreements to allow them to enter the internal market and to allow trade to continue,” he said in interview with the Times of Malta. “We have to do that. But it will not be as easy or as cheap as it is now.”