Pfizer Inc. and Flynn Pharma Ltd. were fined a record amount for abusing their dominant position in the U.K. by charging unfair prices for phenytoin sodium, an anti-epilepsy drug.The Competition and Markets Authority fined Pfizer 84.2 million pounds ($106 million) and Flynn Pharma 5.2 million pounds after they increased prices by as much as 2,600 percent in September 2012, the regulator said in an e-mailed statement. The price increases occurred after Pfizer transferred distribution rights to Flynn, which renamed the drug.“The companies deliberately exploited the opportunity offered by de-branding to hike up the price for a drug which is relied upon by many thousands of patients,” said Philip Marsden, chairman of the Case Decision Group for the CMA’s investigation. “These extraordinary price rises have cost the NHS and the taxpayer tens of millions of pounds.’’Britain’s National Health Service spent about 50 million pounds on the anti-epilepsy capsules in 2013 and 40 million pounds in 2014, the CMA said in its August 2015 complaint. The amount the NHS was charged for 100 milligram packs of the drug "rocketed" from 2.83 pounds to 67.50 pounds, before dropping to 54 pounds starting in May 2014, the CMA said Wednesday.Pfizer said that it “refutes” the findings of the regulator.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




“Phenytoin capsules were a loss-making product for Pfizer and the Flynn transaction represented an opportunity to secure ongoing supply of an important medicine for patients with epilepsy, while maintaining continuity of manufacture,” the company said in a statement. “When Flynn launched its product, the company set a price that was between 25 and 40 percent less than the price of the equivalent medicine from another supplier to the NHS which had long been regulated, and appeared to be acceptable to, the Department of Health.”Officials at Flynn weren’t immediately available to comment.Prior to September 2012, prices were regulated when Pfizer manufactured and sold phenytoin sodium capsules to U.K. wholesalers and pharmacies under the brand name Epanutin, the CMA said. In September 2012, Pfizer sold the distribution rights for Epanutin to Flynn Pharma, which de-branded the drug, meaning that it was no longer subject to price regulation."Although Pfizer has claimed that Epanutin was loss-making before it was de-branded, the CMA has calculated that, according to Pfizer’s figures, all such losses would have been recovered within 2 months of the price rises," the regulator said."This is the highest fine the CMA has imposed and it sends out a clear message to the sector that we are determined to crack down on such behavior and to protect customers, including the NHS, and taxpayers from being exploited," the CMA’s Marsden said.