Kevin Johnson.After turning Starbucks Corp. into the world’s largest coffee chain, Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz will hand the reins to a lieutenant who could solidify its role as a technology company.




 Exclusive insights on technology around the world.
 

 Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Kevin Johnson, a 33-year veteran of the tech industry who became Starbucks’ chief operating officer last year, will take the helm from Schultz on April 3. The move is a nod to the company’s growing reputation for innovation: It introduced the world’s first successful mobile-payment service, beating out the likes of Apple Inc. and Google Inc., and gets an increasingly large portion of its revenue from that source.Schultz will keep the role of executive chairman at Starbucks, focusing on the rollout of its upscale Reserve brand.“I’m not leaving the company,” Schultz, 63, said on a conference call after the change was announced Thursday. “But Kevin and the team are in charge.”Johnson, who joined the board in 2009, was tapped for the operating chief job after Troy Alstead went on sabbatical. Johnson, 56, previously worked at Microsoft Corp. and Juniper Networks Inc. In 2008, he was named to the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, where he served under presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.The CEO change jarred investors, who briefly sent the shares down as much as 12 percent, though Johnson was seen as a possible successor since he took the No. 2 job last year.For many shareholders and customers, Schultz has embodied Starbucks. Over the past three decades, he turned much of the world into coffee aficionados, bringing lattes and mochas to 70 countries. And he’s used the company to pursue social causes -- occasionally clumsily -- such as racial strife and sustainability.Schultz will focus on expanding Starbucks’ Reserve Roasteries, a chain of massive coffee houses that provide tastings and other experiences, as well as new Reserve retail stores. The executive has been working to position the Reserve name as Starbucks’ new higher-end brand. Schultz also will continue the company’s “social impact” efforts.As CEO, he’s already pushed to open stores in low-income areas and supported gay marriage. It hasn’t always gone smoothly. Schultz’s idea for employees to discuss race relations with customers was criticized as ham-fisted.Investors weren’t anticipating Schultz’s departure as CEO so soon, though having both executives focus on different parts of the company could have benefits, said Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Jennifer Bartashus.“The timing of this is a surprise,” she said. “I do think the ‘divide and conquer’ strategy is probably good for the company long-term.”Starbucks’ digital and technology prowess has put it ahead of its peers, allowing it to serve more customers faster. Same-store sales rose 5 percent in the Americas region in the most recent quarter. Mobile payments accounted for about 25 percent of U.S. transactions in that period.Starbucks built on its tech leadership with an order-ahead feature, which lets customers select and pay for drinks in advance. They then can pick up the beverages at a shop without waiting in line.Since Johnson became operating chief, Starbucks has rolled out mobile ordering across the U.S. and even