What Comes Next for Monte Paschi?Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA is facing a greater chance of a government bailout after the European Central Bank rejected executives’ request to extend the deadline past the end of this year. The world’s oldest bank had asked for more time after Italian voters rejected constitutional reforms proposed by their prime minister, Matteo Renzi. His decision to resign ushered in a period of political uncertainty at a time when the Siena-based lender was trying urgently to raise 5 billion euros ($5.4 billion) from private investors.Monte Paschi would need help from the state. Last week, the bank’s Chief Financial Officer Francesco Mele told investors that “precautionary” state aid was a probable Plan B should private investors balk. Even though such an outcome would avoid a full wind-down of the bank by European regulators, known as a resolution, it would still force losses on creditors, a so-called bail-in.The Italian government has prepared a decree law authorizing state intervention in Monte Paschi, a plan in which bondholders will be affected, according to a government official familiar with the situation.Under European Union rules designed to limit taxpayer-funded bailouts, holders of Monte Paschi’s 4.5 billion euros of junior bonds would face some losses, a process known as burden sharing, if any state aid is granted. Different bonds come with different levels of protection from such losses. Investors might get some equity in the restructured bank, or not, according to analysts. It’s unclear just how the government would soften the blow for retail investors, who hold about 2 billion euros of the bonds.The state-aid rules do contain an exemption from bail-in, if such a move would endanger stability, the amount of help would be small, and the bank had already raised capital in other ways.Analysts are keen to point out that, right now, Monte Paschi capital levels aren’t disastrous: the common equity Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength, was 11.5 percent at the end of September, above mandated levels. But it was deemed Europe’s weakest major bank in stress tests in July and is being pushed to raise funds needed to cover losses from a planned disposal of almost 28 billion euros of bad loans. State aid under a precautionary recapitalization could be used to satisfy the stress test shortfall, but not to cover future losses.ECB officials are also said to be concerned about its short-term funding ability, echoing Fitch Ratings Ltd. Customer deposits were 14 percent lower at the end of September than a year earlier, according to figures released by the bank.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The outcome itself was no shock, but it forced Renzi to step down and created a vacuum in the government. Monte Paschi has burned through most of the 8 billion euros it’s raised from investors since 2009 and Chief Executive Officer Marco Morelli already faced a challenge persuading them to give the bank another chance. A bout of considerable political and economic uncertainty in the country makes that challenge all the more daunting.The ECB would also need to declare the bank as solvent, and Italy would need to win approval for the aid from the European Commission. EU law put in place since the financial crisis makes government support for viable banks more difficult, but a “precautionary and temporary” recapitalization is possible subject to EU state-aid rules, which normally require shareholders and junior creditors to share losses.Monte Paschi could still seek funds from private investors to supplement any state aid. Morelli has already traveled far and wide, including to Doha, Qatar, seeking so-called anchor investors willing to take a big bet on the company’s turnaround.Monte Paschi has become a proxy for the banking system. There could be a knock-on effect for other lenders such as Banca Carige SpA, a Genoa-based lender under pressure from the ECB to strengthen its balance sheet. Veneto-based lenders Banca Popolare di Vicenza SpA and Veneto Banca SpA may need as much as 2.5 billion euros ($2.7 billion) of fresh capital just months after a 2.5 billion-euro emergency cash call in June funded by a bank-industry fund. And Italy’s biggest bank UniCredit SpA is considering a share sale of its own sometime soon. The Milan-based bank will hold an investor day on Dec. 13.