The post-election rally in the U.S. stock market was put on hold this week as a rally in energy companies was offset by a selloff in technology shares and a bond market rout that weighed on dividend-paying shares.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The S&P 500 Index ended the five days 1 percent lower at 2,191.95, halting a three-week advance. Tech stocks led losses with a 2.9 percent drop -- the most since April -- while utilities and real-estate stocks that benefit from lower interest rates slid as the 10-Year Treasury yield reached the highest in more than a year. A three-week rally in small-cap shares reversed as the Russell 2000 Index dropped 2.5 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.1 percent as bank shares gained for the fourth straight week.The weekly loss halted a rally spurred by speculation that President-elect Donald Trump will enact policies that bolster growth in the U.S. and usher in a wave of deregulation in the financial industry. While bank stocks continued their climb, they did so at the slowest pace since the election. Shares of industrial companies, which jumped 8 percent after the Nov. 8 vote before this week, were little changed in the five-day period.For more analysis of the stock market this week