Cluse: No Euro-Dollar Parity as ECB Nears Tapering German 10-year bond yields climbed to the highest since January after the European Central Bank said it will reduce the pace of its monthly asset purchases to 60 billion euros from April.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The euro erased an earlier gain as the central bank said it can increase the size of buying if needed and will announce changes to the parameters of the program at a press conference in Frankfurt. While most economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted ECB President Mario Draghi would announce an extension to the bond-buying program, which was scheduled to run until at least end-March, a majority of the analysts forecast six additional months at the current pace of 80 billion euros.Three quarters of the respondents said the central bank would start tapering its purchases by late 2017, given the slowly accelerating inflation and a moderate, but steady, economic recovery.“The decision to extend QE at a slower pace but for longer is likely to be bad news for markets as the program will no longer be perceived as being open-ended,” said Frederik Ducrozet, an economist at Pictet Wealth Management in Geneva. “We need to see the details in terms of flexibility, i.e. under which conditions the ECB may decide to increase the pace of purchases again, but it remains to be seen if markets will buy such a commitment."Market Reaction: