Donald Trump vowed to get tough with China over trade. The U.S. President-elect’s own economic agenda may add to frustrations as it helps lift the dollar.A stronger greenback, rallying in anticipation of Trump’s plans to boost fiscal and infrastructure spending, already is helping buoy China’s exports to U.S. shores. Shipments surged 8.1 percent last month from a year earlier, snapping seven months of declines.Trump’s policy goals are spurring speculation U.S. interest rates and the dollar will rise faster, putting more pressure on the yuan and enhancing China’s export competitiveness. Stronger overseas shipments would also give Asia’s largest economy greater flexibility to ease off domestic stimulus, which would undercut imports and risk widening of the huge trade surplus with the U.S. that’s often been the subject of the incoming president’s ire.“Trump’s economic policies seem likely only to widen America’s trade deficit with China,” said Andrew Polk, Beijing-based head of China research at Medley Global Advisors, which advises institutional investors. “If the dollar simply maintains its strength, that should lead to an increased U.S. trade deficit and China’s exporters would be a major beneficiary.”China’s total overseas shipments, which have declined in 19 of the past 23 months, increased 0.1 percent last month from a year earlier as a weaker yuan aided foreign buyers. The currency has fallen 10 percent against the dollar since an August 2015 devaluation.The base case is that China’s exports will grow next year on yuan weakness and stronger U.S. demand, Tom Orlik, chief Asia economist at Bloomberg Intelligence in Beijing, wrote in a report Thursday. He estimates exports will expand 5 percent in 2017 in dollar terms, reversing a 7 percent contraction this year.Meanwhile, China’s spending to underpin the economic expansion this year has helped boost purchases from abroad. Imports jumped 6.7 percent percent last month, the most in two years, on strong demand for raw materials from copper to iron ore. That left the U.S. trade surplus at $23.2 billion and the overall trade surplus at $44.6 billion.Now policy makers are starting to ease off the stimulus pedal as they move to curb runaway housing prices in major cities. The central bank also is selectively tightening liquidity to curb financial risks after debt surged to almost 250 percent of gross domestic product.Read more: China monetary policy has quietly tightenedThe potential for China exports to strengthen as imports weaken would put Trump on even more of a collision course with the Asian nation in 2017 over its rising trade surplus. That would be further compounded by the kind of stimulus the president-elect has endorsed, according to Alicia Garcia Herrero, chief Asia-Pacific economist at Natixis SA in Hong Kong.“More infrastructure expenditure and more growth should increase the U.S. current account deficit, and not only with China,” she said. “Trade frictions will increase across the board.”A world away, Mexico is another candidate for Trump ire after his election upset sent the peso plunging in one of the year’s worst performances among major currencies. That makes its goods even cheaper in the dominant destination for its exports, where Trump campaigned on ending or renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement and making Mexico help pay for the construction of a border wall.The Federal Reserve may fuel additional dollar strength. Investors see a near 100 percent probability U.S. policy makers will raise the benchmark rate at their Dec. 13-14 meeting.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Still, the prospect of a more buoyant global economy next year underpinned by expansive U.S. fiscal policy may disappoint, curbing dollar strength and delaying rate hikes. Risks include tighter financial conditions as the greenback and U.S. rates rise, as well as international tensions such as trade wars, Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist Willem Buiter, a former Bank of England policy maker, wrote in a report on his 2017 outlook.Trump’s populist campaign included plans to slap punitive tariffs on imports from China and label it a currency manipulator, though it’s unclear how much of that rhetoric will translate into administration policy after he takes office Jan. 20.“One thing I can be sure of is 8.1 percent year-on-year export growth to the U.S. is never going to last,” said Michael Every, head of financial markets research at Rabobank NA in Hong Kong. “2017 is going to be a wild ride.”— With assistance by Kevin Hamlin