Brett Gorvy, Christie’s chairman and global head of postwar and contemporary art and one of the art market’s most powerful dealmakers, is leaving after two decades to join forces with dealer Dominique Levy.The new partnership will be known as Levy Gorvy, according to a spokeswoman for the gallery. Gorvy will begin on Jan. 2. In addition to its ongoing exhibitions and programs, the entity will include an international advisory service for collectors and estates. He will also be a consultant to the auction house, Christie’s said Wednesday in a statement.Brett GorvyGorvy, 52, led Christie’s department through a period of unprecedented growth in contemporary art, winning consignments that often led to record prices for works by Jean-Michel Basquiat, Jeff Koons and Lucian Freud. Last month, Christie’s sold a painting by Willem de Kooning for record $66.3 million.“Brett Gorvy is Christie’s,’’ said Sandy Heller, a New York-based art consultant to some of the world’s top collectors. “He truly stands alone as far as auction specialists go. He is an absolute connoisseur who is tireless and fully consumed and obsessed by art and the art market.’’The departure is a blow to Christie’s, the world’s biggest auction house by sales, as the art market contracts and rival Sotheby’s steps up competition under Chief Executive Officer Tad Smith. It also caps a tumultuous period for both firms, which have seen specialists and executives depart, often for the competition.Born in South Africa, Gorvy started at Christie’s in 1994, presiding over the postwar and contemporary art department as it became the company’s largest, surpassing Impressionist and modern art. While Christie’s won market share in contemporary art, it came at a price as the company gave up profit on major deals and issued risky guarantees to win trophy artworks. Christie’s lost millions of dollars on guaranteed lots and sales have fallen.Gorvy declined to comment on his exit.Christie’s sales of art and collectibles last year declined 5.9 percent to 4.8 billion pounds in 2015. Postwar and contemporary auctions slid 14 percent to 1.5 billion pounds. In November, the company’s auction of contemporary art tallied $277 million, a 17 percent decline from a year ago.




 Your cheat sheet on life, in one weekly email.
 

 Get our weekly Game Plan newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 




Personnel turnover has intensified at the major auction houses in the past year. Marc Porter, former chairman of Christie’s Americas, will start at Sotheby’s in January. Alex Rotter, Sotheby’s former co-head of contemporary art, is moving to Christie’s in 2017. Many specialists from the world’s two biggest auction houses are joining Phillips, a boutique auction firm led by Ed Dolman. Christie’s former CEO. Amy Cappellazzo, Gorvy’s former co-head of postwar and contemporary art, is now Sotheby’s co-chairman of global fine art division.Dominique Levy Gallery currently operates in New York and London. Christie’s is owned by French billionaire Francois Pinault.