Fresh U.S. equity records lit a fire under the Asian market, with benchmarks from Tokyo to Sydney extending gains as bond yields declined ahead of policy updates from two of the world’s biggest central banks.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The regional Asian stock index rose to a more than one-month high as banks drove Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index to its highest level since August and Japanese shares jumped. The euro and the yen maintained gains with gold ahead of Thursday’s European Central Bank decision, amid mounting speculation policy makers will prolong the euro-zone’s asset-buying program. The New Zealand dollar and Korean won strengthened. Yields on Australian bonds fell to their lowest level this month amid a debt rally across developed markets. Oil nudged $50 a barrel after a surge in U.S. stockpiles.Expectations the ECB chief Mario Draghi will prolong the bank’s bond program buying beyond March provided a shot in the arm for U.S. equities, which had been struggling to extend the rally ignited by Donald Trump’s unexpected election win a month ago. Both the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose to fresh records Wednesday, with investors positioning for a continuation of the ECB’s monthly asset purchases of 80 billion euros ($86 billion). Odds on the Federal Reserve tightening policy further by hiking interest rates remain wedged at 100 percent, according to Fed funds futures.“There is a real risk of unpleasantness in European bond, equity and currency markets if Draghi doesn’t at least meet expectations,” said Sharon Zollner, a senior economist in Auckland at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. “The market is optimistic that the ECB will extend its quantitative easing program at current levels for a further six months.”As well as the ECB review, markets will be digesting an update on Chinese trade data, while Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will speak at a party for economists. Final third-quarter data showed Japan’s economy expanded less than was projected, growing an annualized 1.3 percent after economists predicted a rate of 2.3 percent.StocksCurrenciesBondsCommodities