Sign up to receive the Brexit Bulletin in your inbox, and follow @Brexit on Twitter.If there is one thing the European and British sides now agree on, it’s that the time for striking a Brexit deal has shrunk.While the law allows them two years to negotiate a divorce deal, politicians are now realizing it’s more likely they will have fifteen months at most if British Prime Minister Theresa May fulfils her pledge to activate talks by the end of the March.The shorter timeframe is because the European Parliament must rubber-stamp any accord and will require time to do so, especially with elections looming in mid-2019.Failure to provide enough room for the parliament to run its finger over the pact would risk the U.K. tumbling out of the EU before establishing fresh ties with the bloc, especially as some of the legislature’s 751 members may want to make things tough for May.As Bloomberg’s Tim Ross reports, the intensity and complexity of the talks is prompting the British to suggest different parts of the break-up be addressed simultaneously. The terms of the withdrawal would thus be discussed in parallel with the details of the future relationship.Such an approach contrasts with the sequential strategy preferred by the 27 other EU members. Under that scenario, the U.K. would first need to agree on a departure payment and then settle border arrangements before it could start hammering out its longer-term links to the rest of the bloc.Just as politicians are firming up their plans, so are banks.Citigroup is considering moving some of its London-based equity and interest-rate derivatives traders to Frankfurt after Brexit is triggered, people with knowledge of the matter have told Gavin Finch and Nicholas Comfort of Bloomberg.The U.S. firm is already in discussions with the German financial regulator BaFin about getting the necessary approvals, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are private. Citigroup’s plans could change depending on how the negotiations between the U.K. and European Union develop, one of the people said.The bank expects to have offices up and running across the region before the end of the expected two-year negotiation period and is in discussions with the European Central Bank and regulators in EU nations including Ireland about relocating other parts of its operations, one of the people said.“We are evaluating our options as negotiations between the EU and U.K. continue,” said Edwina Frawley-Gangahar, a Citigroup spokeswoman. “Considerable uncertainty remains over the nature of the U.K.’s eventual exit from the EU, and therefore we have not taken any decisions at this point. London is, and will remain, our EMEA headquarters and a global hub for many of our businesses.”The manoeuvring nevertheless shows banks are shifting from warning about moving jobs from Britain to fleshing out their strategy by picking specific destinations.Proof of how worried London’s finance industry is was on display yesterday as a Bank of England survey showed U.K. political risk jumping to the top of the sector’s concerns.Underscoring what’s at stake, even usually placid central bankers are at odds. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said on Wednesday that the EU should be wary of damaging the British banking sector which is “effectively the investment banker” for the region. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the previous day that the U.K. would suffer most from the split.As Gina Miller prepares for next week’s landmark court hearing on whether May or Parliament has the ultimate power to start Brexit, Bloomberg’s Kit Chellel spoke to her and her hedge fund manager husband Alan.Turns out, she’s not afraid to make enemies.  Since starting an investment firm seven years ago, the couple have picked fights with regulators, fund-management companies and charities.When opponents start throwing personal insults at her, she says “you know what you are saying is the right thing.”As the Liberal Democrat party tries to win today’s Richmond by-election by making it an electoral test of Brexit, leader Tim Farron is imagining a parallel universe in which voters had chosen to stay in the EU by a small margin.“If it had been the other way around, 52:48 for ‘Remain,’ we would not now be having a ‘Hard Remain’ where we just signed up to the euro and we’re all speaking Esperanto,” he told ITV’s The Agenda program this week.For more on Brexit follow Bloomberg on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, and see our full coverage at Bloomberg.com