Singapore plans to bar former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker Tim Leissner from its securities industry for 10 years and fined Standard Chartered Plc and Coutts & Co. over breaches related to a scandal-plagued Malaysian sovereign fund.Leissner, who left Goldman Sachs in February, was sanctioned because he issued an unauthorized reference letter on behalf of Low Taek Jho, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said in a statement on Friday. Low, a Malaysian financier, has been linked to alleged efforts to siphon billions of dollars from 1Malaysia Development Bhd.The penalties are the latest the MAS has handed down to address the damage to Singapore’s reputation caused by anti-money laundering lapses linked to 1MDB. The regulator withdrew the banking licenses of Falcon Private Bank and BSI SA’s local units earlier this year and fined UBS Group AG and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. a combined total of S$2.3 million ($1.6 million).“These actions send a strong signal that we will not tolerate the abuse of Singapore’s financial system for illicit purposes,” MAS Managing Director Ravi Menon said in the statement. “The supervisory investigations into the intricate web of international fund flows has been a learning experience for financial institutions as well as for MAS. Our financial sector will emerge cleaner and stronger.”Besides serving notice of its intention to issue a so-called prohibition order against Leissner, the MAS fined Standard Chartered S$5.2 million and Coutts S$2.4 million.The proposed order will prohibit Leissner from performing any activity regulated by the city’s securities laws or taking part in the management of any capital-market services firm in Singapore, the MAS said.The letter Leissner issued on behalf of Low was on Goldman Sachs’s letterhead and stated that the firm had found no money-laundering concerns after conducting due diligence on Low and his family, the MAS said. The statements were untrue and were made by Leissner without his New York-based employer’s knowledge or consent, the regulator said.“Today’s announcement refers to a matter we discovered in January of this year and identified as a clear violation of the firm’s standards,” Goldman Sachs said in an e-mailed statement. “At that time we promptly took steps to separate Mr. Leissner from the firm and reported the matter to regulatory authorities in several jurisdictions, including Singapore. We continue to cooperate with the MAS.”The regulator said it’s nearing completion of its examinations of financial institutions in Singapore through which 1MDB-related fund flows took place, and will provide a final update in early 2017. The city-state has charged four people, including three former BSI bankers, for their roles in transactions and money flows linked to 1MDB.Allegations that billions of dollars have been improperly siphoned out of the Malaysian fund has led to investigations across the globe including by Swiss and U.S. authorities. The U.S. Department of Justice said in July that more than $3.5 billion was misappropriated from 1MDB, as the agency sought to seize about $1 billion of assets it claims was laundered through the U.S. banking system.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Five wire transfers totaling $636 million were sent between May and December 2012 from a bank account of a company registered in the British Virgin Islands to an account at Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore held in the name of Blackstone Asia Real Estate Partners, the DOJ alleged in a suit filed on July 20. The Blackstone account, not related to Blackstone Group LP, was controlled by a man named by the DOJ as a “a close associate” of Low.Standard Chartered said it reported the transactions “both before and at the time we exited the accounts in early 2013,” according to an e-mail statement from the bank. “We have made significant investments in strengthening our controls, processes, and surveillance systems, and continue to do so.”1MDB has consistently denied wrongdoing and Malaysia’s government has said it will cooperate with lawful investigations of local companies or its citizens in relation to the fund.