The opening of derivatives trading in Singapore was delayed on Thursday, at least the fourth disruption to occur on the city-state’s venues in the past 18 months.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Futures on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which usually open at 7:30 a.m. local time, began trading at about 10:15 a.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contract is one of the most popular at Singapore Exchange Ltd., with 133,000 of the December futures changing hands on the venue Wednesday. The delay also affected India’s Nifty 50 Index Futures, which usually start trading at 9 a.m. local time, and iron ore contracts, Bloomberg data show.SGX said in a statement sent at 10:23 a.m. that all trading on its derivatives markets was normal. It didn’t provide further details.SGX has had a number of technical issues hit its markets in recent years. In July, the exchange halted stock trading mid-morning and failed to reopen for the rest of the day, despite two pledges to do so. Chief Executive Officer Loh Boon Chye apologized for that malfunction, which came on the one-year anniversary of his accession as CEO. His predecessor, Magnus Bocker issued a public apology in the wake of two trading disruptions in the space of a month. Those mishaps led to a reprimand from the Monetary Authority of Singapore.The exchange operator’s recent technical malfunctions also include a near two-hour disruption in derivatives trading in August 2015 and a one-hour halt in October 2015. MAS’s acceptable maximum unscheduled downtime for financial institutions is four hours in any 12-month period.SGX in September formed a committee to look at ways to improve the operational resiliency of its markets after the July malfunction.“It’s not unusual for a technical glitch to happen,” said David Gerald, president of the Securities Investors Association of Singapore, an industry group representing shareholders. “What’s important is that we’ve got to recover quickly and ensure that the market functions and trading is orderly.” Gerald is a member of the committee reviewing SGX’s back-up systems and processes.