European Union governments are preparing to issue British Prime Minister Theresa May a stark ultimatum: seal a deal for the U.K.’s post-Brexit trade ties or lose out on a transitional phase that banks and businesses want.As both sides prepare to face off in the new year, EU governments are closing in on a consensus to allow key British industries such as financial services and auto manufacturing a period after Brexit to adjust to the new arrangements, according to three officials familiar with the matter.The price of such protection is that May and others in the EU must first agree just what the U.K.-EU trade relationship looks like beyond Brexit, said two of the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because no final decision has been taken on the EU approach.In order to prevent the buffer becoming permanent, the length of the transition with a clear expiration date needs to be set out in advance, as do the details of the final EU-U.K. arrangement in each policy area to take effect after the interim phase, one of the officials said.While bankers and executives would welcome clarity about the U.K.’s long-term plan and a transition to it, May is reluctant to give too many details about her ambitions early on for fear she would hand a negotiating advantage to her interlocutors. Refusal to sign up to the EU’s offer, though, would risk leaving the U.K. without a safety net in the event it cannot secure a permanent trade pact within the 15 months talks are now expected to last.In a sign relations between the U.K. and EU remain brittle, Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said on Tuesday that Brexit “can be smooth, it can be orderly, but it requires a different attitude I think on the part of the British government.”“The things I’ve been hearing so far are incompatible with a smooth and orderly,” said Dijsselbloem, who also chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers. “There are different options that are not available and if the U.K. wants to have access to the internal market, it will have to accept rules and regulations that will go with internal market.”Travelling in Bahrain, May said on Monday that the U.K. “is looking to negotiate the best possible terms that we can.” Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond said in Brussels on Tuesday that Britain “wants to keep all options open” and will only strike a “deal if it’s in Britain’s interest.”Senior officials from the 27 other members of the EU will meet over dinner on Dec. 12 to discuss their strategy. They are aiming to reach a common position ahead of a summit of EU leaders scheduled for Dec. 15 in Brussels.The bloc’s approach is solidifying as European Commission negotiator Michel Barnier prepares to meet with reporters in Brussels on Tuesday for the first time since being appointed to the job in July. Member states have vowed to be represented in the negotiations, so that national governments are fully briefed on the state of discussions between the commission and the U.K. government, one of the officials said.May acknowledged for the first time on Nov. 21 that a “cliff edge’’ exists for businesses if Britain leaves the EU before a new trading relationship is established, subjecting them to the tariffs under the World Trade Organization and bureaucratic hurdles to conducting commerce with the U.K.’s biggest market.The Brussels-based commission didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.Fearful of such an outcome and desperate for transparency to allow them to plan for the future, lobby groups such as the Confederation of British Industry and British Bankers’ Association as well as Bank of England Governor Mark Carney are urging May to seek a bridge between Brexit and beyond. Some have said she might even need to secure one before the official talks begin so as to support businesses.In an interview with Channel 4 News on Monday, Carney said a transition is “absolutely desirable.’’The worry for May is that if she fails to secure a transition early on in the talks then banks will begin shifting jobs and operations elsewhere in the continent, while businesses will cut back on hiring and investment. At the same time, agreeing to longer links could antagonize those pro-Brexit campaigners who want a swift, clean break from the EU.May’s office on Monday dismissed calls to cast more light on her strategy amid signs some of her own Conservative Party lawmakers will back a motion by the opposition Labour Party demanding that. “We won’t be revealing our cards before we have to,” her spokesman Greg Swift told reporters in London.Europe’s stance may nevertheless be hardening as hers softens after Brexit Secretary David Davis last week suggested a willingness to consider paying the EU to access certain markets and warned against clamping down on immigration so much that it hurts the economy.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




At a gathering of EU officials last week, Barnier suggested that if May meets her plan to trigger negotiations by March 31, any Brexit deal would need to be completed before the end of 2018 to give the European Parliament time to approve it inside the two years allowed for the divorce talks, two officials said last week. The Guardian reported on Tuesday that Barnier had estimated the U.K. will have to pay around 60 billion euros ($64 billion) to settle commitments when it leaves.The British government accepts time is tight although it’s using that to argue that discussions over the separation and the new relationship should take place simultaneously rather than in steps as others in the EU want.