Geert Wilders, the Dutch Freedom Party leader who’s targeting an election win next year amid the tide of populism sweeping Europe, was found guilty of inciting discrimination with comments he made about Moroccan immigrants, but the judges in the case imposed no penalty.“The guilty verdict was punishment enough,” the presiding judge, Hendrik Steenhuis, said when he delivered his verdict in the courtroom near Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport amid tight security on Friday. Wilders, who was also found guilty of using offensive language about Moroccans as a group but cleared of inciting hatred, was not present in court.“With his comments, Wilders contributed to a further polarization of Dutch society,” Steenhuis said. Wilders, whose party is known as the PVV in Dutch, responded via Twitter, saying: “Three PVV hating judges declare that Moroccans are a race and convict me and half of the Netherlands. Madness.” Wilders’s lawyer immediately announced an appeal, Dutch national news agency ANP reported.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The verdict represents a possible boost to Wilders in his bid to make the Freedom Party the largest in the Dutch parliament in the March 2017 elections. All recent polls suggest the party is set to win most seats ahead of Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s Liberals. Wilders, who has gained support on a program of opposition to Islam and the European Union, is pledging to emulate the U.K. and take the Netherlands out of the bloc and shut the country’s borders to Muslim immigrants if he gains power.During a speech in March 2014 in The Hague, Wilders asked people attending a Freedom Party rally if they wanted “more or fewer Moroccans” in the Netherlands. When the crowd responded by chanting “fewer, fewer, fewer,’’ Wilders replied that he would “take care of that.” More than 6,400 complaints about the remarks were filed to the public prosecutor’s office.Wilders, who didn’t attend most of the proceedings but used his right to make a closing speech in his defense, called the trial a ‘’political process’’ and he said he would never be silent. “The freedom of speech is the only freedom I still have,’’ said Wilders, who is under close police protection.The elections to the Dutch lower house present one of the next big opportunities for populists to shake up the political establishment after Britain’s vote to leave the European Union in June and the election of Donald Trump as U.S. president a month ago.