Brookfield Asset Management Inc. has entered exclusive talks on a takeover of Bharti Infratel Ltd., India’s largest listed wireless tower owner, after submitting a bid valuing the company at about $11 billion, people with knowledge of the matter said.Canada’s largest alternative asset manager offered to buy a majority stake in Bharti Infratel for around 400 rupees per share, the people said, asking not to be identified because the information is private. An investor group including KKR & Co., Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Blackstone Group LP made an offer for a minority stake in the Gurgaon-based company, which is controlled by billionaire Sunil Mittal, according to the people. The bid from the KKR consortium was above the recent market price, though less than Brookfield’s offer, one of the people said. Shares of Bharti Infratel jumped as much as 3.8 percent in Thursday trading and were up 3.3 percent at 1 p.m. in Mumbai.No final agreements have been reached, and there’s no certainty the discussions will result in a transaction, according to the people. Bharti Infratel shares had fallen 12 percent through Wednesday, giving the company a market value of about $10.1 billion.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




A sale would help parent company Bharti Airtel Ltd. pay down net debt that totaled 814.8 billion rupees ($11.9 billion) at the end of September. Bharti Airtel said last month it formed a panel to evaluate options for monetizing its 72 percent stake in the tower company. Bharti Airtel hasn’t made a final decision on how large a shareholding it’s willing to sell in the business, one of the people said.Carlyle Group LP was also considering a bid for a stake in Bharti Infratel, another person said. Representatives for Blackstone, Brookfield, Carlyle, CPPIB and KKR declined to comment. A spokesman for Bharti Airtel and Bharti Infratel declined to comment beyond earlier statements.A takeover of Bharti Infratel would be Brookfield’s biggest investment in India, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Canadian firm agreed in October to buy Reliance Communications Ltd.’s mobile-phone tower business for an upfront payment of 110 billion rupees, in what would be the largest deal by a private equity fund in the country, the data show. Brookfield is seeking additional investments in Indian infrastructure, including telecom towers, Anuj Ranjan, the firm’s regional head for the Middle East and South Asia, said in an interview last month. It also agreed in October to buy about $1 billion of commercial property from Hiranandani Developers Pvt, according to Ranjan.Bharti Infratel has 89,791 towers at the end of September, according to a company presentation. It also owns 42 percent in Indus Towers Ltd., a joint venture with Vodafone Group Plc and Idea Cellular Ltd. that is India’s largest owner of wireless telecommunications infrastructure.