Originally conceived in the 1700s as a means of preserving and utilizing old (read: stale or soured) beer by blending with new, porter’s dark brown or black hefty malt character was a novel way of covering otherwise undesirable flaws in flavor. The traditional flavor profile had a tart character.No longer pragmatic blends of beer, most porters brewed today, including their bigger relatives the Baltic and imperial porters, offer instead dark flavors of chocolate, coffee, and toffee—not unlike closely related stout. The historical and technical differences between the two styles is highly subjective with no definitive answers: Do only stouts utilize roasted barley? Do only porters utilize chocolate malt? Are porters lighter and sweeter and stouts heavier and drier?  Instead of going down that pedantic rabbit hole, it&apos;s best just to accept what&apos;s on the label and enjoy.Here are eight killer examples of the contemporary porter styles to do just that, ranging from moderately alcoholic, easy drinkers to stronger sippers. No surprise, they all pair perfectly with a roaring fire.A photo posted by @anchorbrewing on Nov 20, 2016 at 11:30am PSTAnchor was one of the first stateside producers to brew a porter back in the early 1970s when the style was relegated to obscurity. Now, 44 years since its debut, Anchor’s Porter is still considered one of the very best. Dark chocolate and coffee notes backed by a light bitterness and effortless body. A photo posted by Tom Abram (@runawaysss) on Oct 10, 2015 at 7:06am PDTLondon’s Kernel brewery always seems to strike the perfect balance between historical fundamentals and contemporary experimentation in its brewing practices. For this Export India Porter, expect a velvety dark chocolate-forward base, which supports a uniquely hoppy bouquet. A photo posted by Joe Mandro (@yomandro) on Jun 12, 2016 at 3:44pm PDTThe hoppy-leaning portfolio of Maine Beer Co. has a certain pristine quality to it. The brilliantly executed King Titus is one of the brewery’s few year-round dark recipes, named in honor of a beloved silverback gorilla who was sheltered by the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund. Robustly chocolatey, the brew is worthy of bearing that impressive mammal&apos;s name. A photo posted by Beer.Nerd.Malmo (@beer.nerd.malmo) on Feb 19, 2015 at 8:15am PSTArty Scandinavian gypsy brewing disciples of Mikkeller, To Øl often push the limits of both adjunct experimentation and packaging aesthetics in its unique releases. Black Ball is its more modest take on a porter, with a particularly satisfying rich mouthfeel and terrifically enjoyable smoke character in the flavor. A photo posted by Mark Azzarello (@wvubeerguy) on Aug 2, 2015 at 3:27pm PDTMetalhead hellions Three Floyds is one of the truly mammoth forces to be reckoned with in U.S. craft beer. Topless Wytch is its Baltic porter as provocatively decadent on the palate as the beer’s name itself. Picture big luscious roasty notes that make way for a sweet malty finish. A photo posted by Hiapo Palu (@dontservetongansbeer) on Oct 15, 2016 at 1:53pm PDTWhile Russian River is more famous for its hoppy ales and vinously sour barrel-aged brews, its stab at an imperial porter, Shadow of a Doubt, is no less enjoyable or noteworthy. Named for the 1943 Hitchcock flick of the same name, its deep flavor of sweet cacao shifts into a dry licorice and tobacco-laden finish. A photo posted by Patrick Witthaus (@patrickwitthaus) on Apr 28, 2016 at 4:48am PDT




 Travel with us, drive with us, eat with us.
 

 Get our weekly Pursuits newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




All-lager brewing outfit Jack’s Abby’s Framinghammer Baltic porter takes the non-ale route in its brewing. Extended conditioning prior to release with oats and brown sugar lends an immediately smooth sweetness that supports a hefty double-digit alcohol content. It also serves as a terrific base for several barrel-aged and adjunct-heavy variants, such as PB&J Framinghammer, which is aged in bourbon barrels with peanut butter and raspberries. A photo posted by Rodolpho Coutinho (@rodolphocoutinho) on Apr 20, 2016 at 7:40am PDTDe Molen is perhaps Europe’s best producer of high-alcohol, malt-forward brews, and its imperial porter Tsarina Esra is no exception. Smooth and sweet cocoa darkness, underlying dark fruitiness, and a nicely fluffy mouthfeel. There’s also an oak-aged Reserva variant that rounds everything out with a beautiful punched-up woodiness.