Prime Minister Matteo Renzi is keeping Italy waiting. The outgoing premier has yet to tell the head of state whether he would be willing to stay on despite his defeat in a constitutional referendum.As President Sergio Mattarella holds talks with party leaders for a second day on Friday in the struggle to find a premier, he wants to hear whether Renzi would agree to be re-appointed, or whether he would back a figure he trusts as a successor, according to a state official who asked not to be named because the issue is confidential.Successors whom Renzi, 41, could back include Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan, Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni, and Transport Minister Graziano Delrio, the official said. Although weakened by his defeat in Sunday’s referendum, Renzi’s word still carries weight as leader of the Democratic Party, the biggest in parliament.Mattarella, who will end three days of consultations with political parties on Saturday, favors Renzi staying on, newspaper La Repubblica reported, and wants to reach a decision on Monday -- to ensure Italy has a newly appointed premier at the European Union summit in Brussels on Dec. 15. The president would ask Renzi to verify whether he still has a parliamentary majority with confidence votes in both houses, the newspaper said.After almost three years in power, Renzi faces a dilemma.If he stays on, he would lead efforts to change the electoral law which mainstream parties want to alter because it is now different for each house, and it gives an automatic majority to the leading party in the lower house. They fear the winner could be the anti-establishment Five Star Movement, which wants a referendum on whether to leave the euro area.The downside for Renzi is that he had promised to resign if he lost the referendum, and he would face a potential backlash from voters in the next election, with opposition parties accusing him of going back on his word. Whether led by Renzi or not, the next government is expected to last only until the first half of next year.Five Star’s Luigi di Maio, deputy speaker of the lower house, said Renzi should stay on as a caretaker premier but only until just after the Constitutional Court reviews the electoral law for the lower house on Jan. 24. “Renzi couldn’t do any damage because he could only do routine administration,” Di Maio told Sky Tg24 television. The next scheduled elections are not until early 2018.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Lorenzo Guerini, deputy-secretary of Renzi’s PD, declined to say whether it preferred a broad-based new government, or early elections. “We’re waiting to hear whether all the political forces, starting with those which backed ‘No’ and said in the election campaign that we should vote immediately afterwards, will confirm their position to the head of state,” Guerini told newspaper Corriere della Sera.In a speech to his party leadership on Wednesday, Renzi outlined two options: either early elections in early 2017 after the Court verdict on the electoral law, or the formation of a grand coalition that would change that law.When Renzi formally handed in his resignation to Mattarella on Wednesday, the president delayed accepting. Mattarella had already asked Renzi to put his resignation on hold until the Senate approved the 2017 budget, which it did earlier on Wednesday.