Australia’s economy shrank the most in almost eight years in the third quarter as government spending fell and imports rose. The local currency slumped.The report spans a period when Australia’s election returned Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull with a razor-thin majority and government spending and resource exports failed to lift growth. The slowdown in annual growth from 3.1 percent in the second quarter is dramatic, particularly when the Treasury estimates the economy’s potential at 2.75 percent and central bank forecasts match or exceed that level.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




“We’re still confident that this is just a perfect storm of negatives and we shouldn’t be talking about technical recessions. -- we should be talking about what rebound we can expect for the fourth quarter,” said Annette Beacher, head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities Ltd. in Singapore. “It just seemed like an unexpected confluence of negatives that all happened to be concentrated in one quarter.”The Australian dollar fell to 74.20 U.S. cents at 11:56 a.m. in Sydney, compared to 74.67 cents before the data.Wednesday’s data also showed:Australia’s transition away from mining is relying on industries like tourism and education that are among the most sensitive to the currency’s fluctuations. A predicted tightening by the U.S. central bank this month may exert downward pressure on the currency and help Australia’s exporters. About 1 percent of GDP growth comes from resource exports.The resurgence of iron ore, Australia’s biggest earner, took a pause in the three-month period; at the other extreme, coking coal jumped 130 percent as China tried to rein in excess output. Australia is enjoying a renewed windfall from the world’s no. 2 economy, where fiscal stimulus raised demand for resources from Down Under.