Indian sovereign bonds reversed gains after policy makers surprisingly kept interest rates unchanged ahead of a probable increase in U.S. borrowing costs this month.The monetary policy committee led by Reserve Bank of India Governor Urjit Patel unanimously left the benchmark repurchase rate at 6.25 percent, according to a central bank statement in Mumbai on Wednesday. The outcome was predicted by only eight of 44 economists in a Bloomberg survey, while 31 expected a cut to 6 percent and five saw a reduction to 5.75 percent.The yield on government notes due September 2026 jumped 16 basis points to 6.36 percent as of 3:12 p.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from the RBI’s trading system. The rupee also erased an advance and was little changed at 67.9150 per dollar.“Bonds are reacting negatively as a rate cut and some liquidity easing was priced in by the market,” said Gopikrishnan MS, the Mumbai-based head of foreign exchange, rates and credit for South Asia at Standard Chartered Plc.Consumer-price inflation slowed to a 14-month low in October, spurring bets for monetary easing. Calls for a rate cut intensified further as the government’s shock Nov. 8 move to invalidate 86 percent of India’s currency in circulation threatens to dent demand in the cash-driven economy. Global banks including Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG slashed full-year growth forecasts for Asia’s third-largest economy.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




While “supply disruptions in the backwash of currency replacement may drag down growth this year, it is important to analyze more information and experience before judging their full effects and their persistence – short-term developments that influence the outlook disproportionately warrant caution with respect to setting the monetary policy stance,” according to the MPC’s statement on Wednesday. “If the impact is transient as widely expected, growth should rebound strongly.”Bonds in India had surged in the runup to the policy decision as the currency recall saw citizens rushing to banks to deposit the defunct notes, flooding the financial system with cash and boosting demand for debt. The 10-year yield sank 55 basis points in November. The central bank on Wednesday said it will withdraw the temporary increase in lenders’ cash reserve ratio requirement that it announced last month.