Crude oil rose a second day, breaching $51 a barrel in New York before a meeting between OPEC and other major producers on output cuts. Asian stocks fluctuated at the end of their best week since September, while bonds and the Korean won declined.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




U.S. crude advanced to $51.06 a barrel before talks Saturday in Vienna among the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and 14 other nations. The Asia-Pacific equity benchmark swung as shares in Sydney and Tokyo climbed, while those in South Korea slipped. Bonds from Australia to Japan fell after the European Central Bank pledged to cut bond buying, while at the same time extending quantitative easing until the end of 2017. The won trimmed its biggest weekly advance in two months as the dollar gained ground.OPEC’s shock deal aimed at stabilizing oil prices will return to focus this weekend, with the meeting potentially giving investors clues as to whether the agreement will be fulfilled. While the ECB’s mixed message initially wrong-footed the market, it was eventually seen as a signal to buy equities with the extension of the current asset purchase program by three months more than economists had expected. The attention now shifts to the Federal Reserve, with traders all but convinced the U.S. will end the year with an interest-rate hike.“The immediate focus for the market is the discussions between OPEC and non-OPEC members this weekend,” said Jonathan Barratt, chief investment officer at Ayers Alliance Securities in Sydney. “The sweet spot for prices is around $55 a barrel. Anything higher and the market will see more supply.” The Asian data slate is full for Friday, with China to update on consumer and producer prices as well as foreign-direct investment. Thailand updates on foreign reserves and a gauge of Malaysian industrial output is due. The Philippines also reports on trade.CommoditiesStocksCurrenciesBonds