Hong Kong stocks climbed, with the benchmark index poised for its steepest gain in two weeks, as Asian investors joined global counterparts in shrugging off the defeat of Italy’s constitutional referendum.The Hang Seng Index rose 0.7 percent as of 1:29 p.m. local time, as a gauge of volatility on the benchmark equity index slid to a 1 1/2-year low. A selloff in Asia spurred by concern about the Italian vote had reversed by the time European markets opened, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at an all-time high in New York. Volume on the benchmark index was 29 percent less than its 30-day average at the time of the day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.“The news on Italy didn’t create big fluctuations in financial markets, so that’s good for Hong Kong,” said Linus Yip, a Hong Kong-based strategist at First Shanghai Securities Ltd. “The market may remain firm but the momentum isn’t that great right now.”Tuesday’s gain helped pare the quarterly loss for Hong Kong’s benchmark equity gauge to 2.7 percent. Trading through the exchange link with Shenzhen was muted on the program’s second day, with investors making net purchases of about 311 million yuan ($45 million) in Hong Kong and 1.25 billion yuan in the mainland technology hub. On Monday, eight of traders’ 10 most popular Shenzhen picks declined.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. climbed for a second day after plunging on Friday following a report Macau plans to more closely monitor VIPs bringing cash into the gambling enclave. Hang Lung Properties Ltd. and Sino Land Co. were among companies leading gains on the Hong Kong measure, rising at least 1.6 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 0.6 percent, while the Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1 percent. The Shenzhen Composite Index increased 0.2 percent.Political risk from Italy hasn’t spread beyond its borders as markets were correctly positioned for the anti-establishment mood sweeping around the world. This was a departure from the Brexit referendum and Donald Trump’s surprise election, when traders were caught out by populist votes.