Gina Rinehart.Billionaire Gina Rinehart and her Chinese business partner have been cleared by the Australian government to buy iconic cattle company S. Kidman & Co., ending more than a year of uncertainty over the future of the vast property.Treasurer Scott Morrison said the deal meant that Kidman, which spans about 1.3 percent of the nation’s total land area, would remain majority Australian owned. The largest cattle station, Anna Creek and a property known as the Peake, will be carved out and acquired by the local Williams farming family, Morrison said in a statement Friday.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Founded in 1899 by so-called Cattle King Sidney Kidman, the company’s ranches span 101,000 square kilometers (39,000 square miles) and carry about 185,000 cattle. Acting on the advice of the Foreign Investment Review Board, the government blocked the sale to a Chinese company in November last year, saying the proximity of the Anna Creek ranch to a weapons-testing range could compromise national security.Rinehart’s A$386.5 million ($288.1 million) bid, made under the entity Australian Outback Beef Pty., was unanimously recommended by the Kidman board in October, topping a rival offer by a group of outback ranchers. Her Hancock Prospecting Pty owns 67 percent of Outback Beef and Shanghai CRED Real Estate Stock Co. owns the rest.