Starbucks’ Schultz to Step Down as CEOStarbucks Corp.’s Howard Schultz, who built the coffee empire over the past three decades and served two separate stints as chief executive officer, will step down next year, handing the reins to technology veteran Kevin Johnson.Johnson, who joined Starbucks’ board seven years ago and became chief operating officer in 2015, will take the CEO job on April 3, the Seattle-based company said in a statement on Thursday. Schultz, 63, will keep the role of chairman and remain an executive at Starbucks.The news jarred investors, who briefly sent the shares down as much as 12 percent, though Johnson was seen as a possible successor since he took the No. 2 job at the company last year. The elevation of a longtime tech executive to the CEO role underscores Starbucks’ shift toward innovation. The company has used its mobile application and other tech services to fuel sales in recent years, and it’s counting on Johnson to bring a Silicon Valley mindset to the coffee giant.“This move ideally positions Starbucks to continue profitably growing our core business around the world,” Schultz said in the statement.Johnson, who joined the board in 2009, was chosen last year to replace Troy Alstead as operating chief. He has previously served as an executive at Microsoft Corp. and Juniper Networks Inc. In 2008, he was named to the National Security Telecommunication Advisory Committee, where he served under presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.




 Exclusive insights on technology around the world.
 

 Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Schultz will focus on expanding Starbucks’ Reserve Roasteries, a chain of massive coffee houses that provide tastings and other experiences, as well as new Reserve retail stores. The executive has been working to position the Reserve name as Starbucks’ new upscale brand. Schultz also will continue the company’s “social impact” efforts. As CEO, he’s already made forays into anti-racism initiatives and pushed to open stores in low-income areas.“The timing of this is a surprise,” said Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Jennifer Bartashus. “I do think the ‘divide and conquer’ strategy is probably good for the company long-term.”Starbucks’ digital and technology prowess has put it ahead of its peers, allowing it to serve more customers faster. Same-store sales rose 5 percent in the Americas region in the most recent quarter. Mobile payments accounted for about 25 percent of U.S. transactions in that period.Since Johnson became operating chief, Starbucks has rolled out mobile ordering across the U.S. and even tested delivery. The company also is boosting spending on digital ventures, including taking its app and rewards platform to countries such as China.Though shares of Starbucks tumbled immediately after the announcement, they recovered some of that ground during extended trading. As of 4:35 p.m. in New York, the stock was down 3.3 percent to $56.59.It’s been speculated that Schultz might make a run for U.S. president, though he’s repeatedly said he has no intention of doing so. While speaking at a conference in New York last month, Schultz said he wouldn’t serve as part of President-elect Donald Trump’s cabinet. He also denied rumors of running for president last year in a New York Times opinion piece.It’s probably too early to tell if Schultz has designs on the White House, Bartashus said.“Certainly if he is interested in a political career, he has the next 2 1/2 years to sow those seeds,” she said. “A lot will depend on the first half of the Trump administration.”