Egypt’s president said the pound’s current exchange rate doesn’t reflect its true value and it would take a “few months” for a balance to be achieved in the markets, as the nation’s urban inflation rate rose to its highest level in eight years.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




In a televised speech, President Abdel-Fattah El-Sisi said the Nov. 3 decision to float the Egyptian pound was one that could no longer be delayed. Prices have jumped since the move -- which along with a cut in fuel subsidies was a key condition for securing a $12 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund. Annual urban consumer inflation accelerated to 19.4 percent last month, from 13.6 percent in October, driven by a surge in food costs, data showed on Thursday.El-Sisi said the government, before deciding to float the pound, had made sure that basic goods were available at “reasonable prices for six months, at least.” The pound’s “exchange rate of 17 or 18 per dollar is not its real price, and the balance will happen in a few months.”The remarks are part of an attempt to explain to a population of 92 million -- half of whom live near or below the poverty line -- the reasoning behind last month’s major policy steps.Officials have sought to downplay the volatility in the exchange rate and have said the spike in consumer prices would abate. They have repeatedly promised that while the government would take steps to protect the poor from the impact of the reforms, cutting costs and revamping a bloated subsidy system were key to economic revival after more than five years of turmoil that ousted two presidents.“We had no other option but to do what we’re doing now,” El-Sisi said on Thursday.Some economists expect inflation to rise to 20 percent by the end of the year, and the latest figures support the predictions. The annual rate was the highest since November 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.The rise was expected, given the weaker pound and increasing transportation costs, said Reham ElDesoki, senior economist with Dubai-based Arqaam Capital. “This is not the end of it; inflation will go even higher in the coming few months.”The pound now trades around 17.9 per dollar, 50 percent below its value before the central bank removed all restrictions on the exchange rate. The regulator also said it will cease defending the currency, a policy that cost Egypt billions of dollars since 2011.Central Bank Governor Tarek Amer said the market was adapting to the new currency regime. The volatility in the exchange rate “is very good, it’s very healthy,” he said in an interview with the Enterprise newsletter on Thursday.Amer also said he expected investment inflows to Egypt to pick up and “automatically have a very positive impact on exchange levels” and inflation. Finance Minister Amr El-Garhy said last month that he expected inflation to ease to about 10 percent by mid-2017 as the budget deficit starts to narrow.Net foreign reserves rose to the highest level in more than five years in November, as the country started receiving money from the IMF and global lenders. Amer has said he’s targeting $25 billion in reserves by year-end.