China’s 10-year government bonds declined, pushing the yield to the highest level in a year, as signs of a stabilizing economy and tightening liquidity damped demand for safer assets.The yield on sovereign debt due August 2026 rose 10 basis points to 3.04 percent, according to National Interbank Funding Center prices. That’s the highest for a benchmark security since December 2015, ChinaBond data show. A weighted average repurchase rate in the interbank market jumped to the highest level in almost 20 months on Wednesday, as China’s official factory gauge in November matched the post-2012 high.China’s bond market has been hit by twin blows. Signs of stabilizing economic expansion are damping the demand for safer assets, while tightening interbank liquidity is forcing investors who have borrowed funds to unwind such positions as the trading strategy becomes less profitable.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




“There was suspicion regarding the sustainability of the recovery, but economic data have been showing the stabilization continues, and this has been driving some traders to adjust positions,” said Shen Bifan, an analyst in the fixed-income department at First Capital Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “At the same time, the PBOC is showing its intention to keep the money market tightly balanced. This is leading to a negative sentiment on bonds, and the correction isn’t over yet.”The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed payment to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose for a sixth day, jumping eight basis points to 3.3 percent, the highest in 20 months.The PBOC injected a combined 95 billion yuan ($14 billion) via open-market operations on Wednesday and Thursday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The central bank also provided loans to some lenders via the Standing-Lending Facility on Wednesday, according to people familiar with the matter.The overnight repo rate fell 10 basis points to 2.31 percent, after rising to a one-month high of 2.41 percent on Wednesday, weighted average prices show.— With assistance by Helen Sun