A U.S. Food & Drug Administration inspection of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s facility in Halol, India, has given rise to a 14-page inspection report that could list potential violations of the agency’s manufacturing guidelines.The report, a Form 483 which lists observations that may constitute regulatory violations, is currently under review and will be available by the end of the week, the FDA said in a response to a Freedom of Information request. Sun Pharma shares dropped as much as 4.6 percent in Mumbai trading Wednesday. The regulator didn’t give details or any indication of the seriousness of the observations. The drugmaker will have a chance to respond to the observations before a final determination is made, according to the FDA’s website.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Sun’s Halol plant received a warning letter last year from the regulator due to past violations which has prevented new product launches from the facility in the U.S., Sun’s largest market. That has slowed revenue growth at India’s largest drug maker and imposed new costs to bring the plant back up to standard. The latest U.S. FDA inspection came after Sun invited the agency back to review a year’s worth of remediation efforts in the hopes the warning letter would be lifted.Frederick Castro, a spokesman for Sun Pharma, declined to comment on the U.S. FDA observations.