Explosion at the SpaceX launch site on Sept. 1.SpaceX plans to launch several Iridium communications satellites into space in early January, delaying its return to flight after a Sept. 1 fireball destroyed a Falcon 9 rocket on a Florida launch pad.SpaceX is completing “the final steps necessary to safely and reliably return to flight,” according to a posting Wednesday on the company’s website. Iridium had said in a Dec. 1 statement that the launch would be Dec. 16, contingent on U.S. Federal Aviation Administration approval of SpaceX resuming flights.The FAA hasn’t granted SpaceX a permit for the launch or signed off on the company’s investigation of the explosion, according to an e-mail from the agency. The FAA hasn’t commented on the findings of the investigation, for which it has oversight.The closely held company led by Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk suffered a setback when a blast during the Sept. 1 test firing of the rocket’s engines destroyed the Falcon 9 and Amos-6, an Israeli communications satellite, at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. No one was injured.




 Exclusive insights on technology around the world.
 

 Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The explosion, photos of which were splashed across front pages, was Space Exploration Technologies Corp.’s second major mishap in little over a year. On June 28, 2015, a Falcon 9 rocket carrying a Dragon spacecraft with cargo destined for the International Space Station blew apart 2 minutes and 19 seconds after launch. The cause was determined to be a two-foot-long, inch-thick strut in a liquid oxygen tank that snapped.SpaceX returned to flight less than six months later. On Dec. 21, 2015, the company launched, then landed in Cape Canaveral, a Falcon 9 rocket for the first time. In April, SpaceX landed its Falcon 9 rocket upright on a drone ship bobbing in the Atlantic Ocean for the first time ever, a key milestone toward the company’s goal of reusing rockets and sending humans to Mars.The Iridium NEXT constellation will replace the world’s largest commercial satellite network of low-earth orbit satellites, Iridium Communications Inc. has said.