Gold’s getting hit from all directions. Bullion’s heading for the worst run of weekly losses in more than a year as the Federal Reserve gears up to hike rates, U.S. equities at record levels lure money out of the haven and fund holdings wither.Prices are set for a fifth weekly loss, the longest run since November 2015, to erode an annual gain. Bullion for immediate delivery lost as much as 0.5 percent to $1,165.27 an ounce, near a 10-month low, and traded at $1,169.55 at 2:42 p.m. in Singapore, according to Bloomberg generic pricing.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The precious metal is ending 2016 on the ropes as investors price in the Fed’s probable move next week, as well as the likelihood of further hikes in 2017, which has boosted the dollar. The S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average are at all-time highs amid speculation President-elect Donald Trump’s policies will spur growth. Investors are also assessing the European Central Bank’s decision on Thursday to tweak its bond buying.“Gold has absorbed a lot of bad news in the form of a rising U.S. dollar in particular, and rising interest rates and bond yields,” Ric Spooner, chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney, said by phone. “One of the interesting things will be the reaction to what looks to be the almost-certain increase in interest rates by the U.S. Fed next week.”Investors see a near 100 percent probability policy makers will raise the benchmark rate at their Dec. 13-14 meeting for the first increase of the year. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index is 0.1 percent higher this week after surging 3.9 percent in November for the biggest monthly gain in two years.Next week, “there’s going to be a possibility we might see a ‘buy the rumor, sell the fact’ reaction, with possibly some profit-taking in the U.S. dollar after the Fed acts,” according to Spooner. That “could actually lead to a bit of a rally in gold,” he said.The embrace of risk by investors is spurring a selloff in bullion holdings. Assets in gold-backed exchange-traded funds contracted for a 20th straight day as of Thursday, the longest stretch since May 2013. Assets fell 3.3 metric tons to 1,839.4 tons, the lowest since June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.“The continued rally in risk assets poses a major headwind for precious metals,” Jordan Eliseo, chief economist at gold trader and refiner Australian Bullion Co., said in an e-mail. “Softness in physical markets, plus the expected rate hike from the Fed, whilst largely priced in, are also holding gold back, though the market looks oversold on a short-term basis.”