PrivateBancorp Inc. postponed a shareholder vote on a takeover by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce after proxy-advisory firms and some investors called the $3.96 billion cash-and-stock offer insufficient following a post-election rally of U.S. regional lenders.“In view of the significant changes to trading market conditions over the past few weeks, we believe it is in the best interests of all of PrivateBancorp’s stockholders to have additional time to consider the value and long-term strategic benefits of this transaction,” the Chicago-based bank said Wednesday in a statement.PrivateBancorp didn’t announce a new date for the vote, which was scheduled for Thursday.Glazer Capital and Westchester Capital Management, as well as advisory firms Institutional Shareholder Services, Egan-Jones Ratings Co. and Glass Lewis & Co. have urged shareholders to reject CIBC’s offer. Shares of PrivateBancorp have surged as high as $52.98, above the CIBC offer of about $49 a share.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




CIBC anticipates the delay will squeeze out hedge fund and merger-arbitrage traders who’ve acquired PrivateBancorp shares, according to a person familiar with the deal. It also allows more time for equity markets to stabilize and to determine if the rally is due to euphoria over the President-elect Donald Trump’s victory or is the “new normal,” said the person, who asked not to be identified discussing strategy.CIBC “is hoping laws of physics and gravity causes the bank rally to come back to Earth," Sachin Shah, a special situations and merger-arbitrage strategist at Albert Fried & Co., said in a note to investors.The June 29 merger agreement allows for the deal, which is valid for one year after the announcement date, to be postponed twice, and includes a $150 million breakup fee payable to CIBC under certain conditions, according to a regulatory filing. PrivateBancorp shares climbed 0.3 percent to $52.28 at 9:45 a.m. in New York, giving it a market value of $4.18 billion. CIBC gained 0.4 percent to C$109.87 in Toronto.Toronto-based CIBC is pursing the deal to expand its commercial lending business in the U.S. and leverage its existing wealth-management platform in the country. PrivateBancorp, with about $19 billion in assets, serves largely middle-market companies, business owners and wealthy families.“We remain committed to this transaction on the agreed terms, which were established by both companies based on our analysis of the fundamental, long-term merits of the combination,” CIBC Chief Executive Officer Victor Dodig said Wednesday in a separate statement.