President Xi Jinping will become the first Chinese head of state to attend the World Economic Forum in Switzerland next month, a person familiar with the trip said, as the country seeks a larger role in shaping the global financial order.Xi was preparing to take part in the annual gathering of billionaires and political elites in the Alpine resort town of Davos, which is scheduled from Jan. 17-20, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the trip hasn’t yet been announced. Swiss newspaper NZZ am Sonntag reported last month that Xi would make a state visit to the Swiss capital of Bern on Jan. 15-16 before traveling to Davos.The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Wednesday that it would make an announcement as soon as the matter had been decided. A spokeswoman for the World Economic Forum declined to comment.The trip comes as China casts itself as a leading advocate of globalization in the wake of Donald Trump’s surprise election as U.S. president last month on an “America First” campaign critical of free-trade deals. Trump is scheduled to be inaugurated in Washington on the final day of the economic forum.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The event will provide a platform for Xi to tout China’s role in the global economy, as he prepares for a key Communist Party gathering next year expected to give him a second term as leader. The president will likely highlight signature projects such as the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and the One Belt, One Road trade-and-infrastructure initiative, which help leverage Chinese economic might into geopolitical clout.Chinese Premier Li Keqiang used the World Economic Forum in 2015 to reassure the international business community about the country’s “new normal” of slower economic growth. His predecessor, Wen Jiabao, attended in 2009, weeks after unveiling a $586 billion stimulus package amid the financial crisis. This year, the Chinese delegation was led by Vice President Li Yuanchao.— With assistance by Ting Shi, and Keith Zhai