China’s official factory gauge matched a post-2012 high as a credit-fueled recovery of smokestack industries gained momentum and signaled a pickup in inflation expectations.The report added to evidence that the old growth drivers are picking up, fueled by inexpensive credit, and showed that large companies, which tend to be state owned, are faring better than smaller enterprises. Input prices jumped to the strongest reading since March 2011, signaling that inflationary pressures may be building after China recently snapped four years of factory gate deflation.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




"The Chinese economy was continuing to improve in November, probably helped along by infrastructure spending, which should underpin December quarter GDP growth of around 6.7 percent or maybe even a bit more," said Shane Oliver, head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors in Sydney. "The main uncertainty though going forward relates to recent signs of a liquidity tightening – evident in rising interbank rates and bond yields – and how long this persists and hence the flow on to growth in December and early next year.""The bigger driver of the improvement was stabilizing domestic demand," said Julia Wang, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. "There are some risks to growth on the horizon, including weakening of the housing market, and an uncertain external environment from U.S. trade policy. But barring an outright trade war, we expect the headwinds to growth to be manageable.""With this growth momentum, the PBOC doesn’t need to ease," said Raymond Yeung, chief greater China economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Hong Kong. "The government will make an effort to deal with the structural issues such as capacity reduction and corporate deleveraging."— With assistance by Xiaoqing Pi