Caroline Johnson in Sleaford on Dec. 9.Prime Minister Theresa May’s Conservative Party held the eastern English district of Sleaford in a House of Commons by-election forced after one of her lawmakers resigned over her handling of the U.K.’s departure from the European Union.Caroline Johnson, a local doctor, won 17,570 votes, with the U.K. Independence Party’s Victoria Ayling polled 4,426 votes in second place, according to the BBC. UKIP was aiming to eat into the Conservatives’ majority in the constituency, where May’s party won 56 percent of the vote in last year’s general election compared to UKIP’s 16 percent, by pledging to force Britain into a “hard” Brexit.Voters in the constituency backed leaving the EU by 62 percent in the June referendum. The vote was the second electoral test of May’s strategy in a week after voters in Richmond, southwest London, backed a Liberal Democrat who promised to do everything she can to keep Britain in the bloc.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Tory lawmaker Stephen Phillips quit as member of the Commons for Sleaford on Nov. 4, citing “irreconcilable policy differences” with May over her wish to exit the bloc without going through Parliament. A lawyer who had campaigned for Brexit, his resignation came on the day the Daily Mail newspaper denounced as “Enemies of the People” three judges who ruled the government would need parliamentary approval to trigger the divorce.Conservative lawmakers traveled to campaign in the seat, an agricultural area of Lincolnshire where there are a large number of immigrants from Europe working in the fields and food-processing factories.The main opposition Labour Party, which came second in the general election with 17 percent of the vote, finished fourth, according to the BBC.