Market Implications of Brexit NegotiationsSupreme Court judges questioned some of the legal theories behind the challenge to the U.K. government’s Brexit plans, saying it’s possible that Parliament gave the final say on leaving the European Union to the British people by agreeing to hold a referendum.After questioning the arguments made by the government in the first two days of the landmark legal challenge, the Justices turned their attention to lawyers on the other side, who are calling for a full vote in Parliament before the U.K. gives formal notice of its intention to leave.“It seems to me there may be some force in the argument that when Parliament comes to face up to this issue they say: ‘We’ll let the British people vote,’” judge David Neuberger, the president of the Supreme Court, said Wednesday morning. "One could say it is Parliament ceding power to the people."David Pannick, a lawyer representing one of the challengers, finance entrepreneur Gina Miller, responded that it was unlikely lawmakers had intended important constitutional principles to be overturned. The government’s opponents say it can’t invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty without first consulting Parliament.As the 11 Supreme Court judges weigh the most important constitutional case of modern times, they have made critical comments about the positions of both sides. If Miller succeeds in her challenge, which is backed by Welsh, Scottish and Northern Irish lawmakers, it could hinder Prime Minister Theresa May’s plans to swiftly trigger Article 50 and start the two-year countdown to Brexit.May has agreed to reveal more details about her Brexit strategy as long as lawmakers vote to back her plan to submit the notice as soon as March. Parliament will debate the motion Wednesday, which Pannick said won’t affect the legal action at the Supreme Court.Neuberger and another Supreme Court judge, Robert Reed, both pointed out that since the June referendum, the government may be free to enact it without the courts intervening.“There isn’t a legal issue that arises here," Judge Reed said.Pannick sought to turn the U.K. Brexit Secretary David Davis’s words against him by highlighting an Oct 10. speech where the cabinet member suggested that European Union laws built up over 40 years in Britain would disappear “on exit.”"We respectfully agree," Pannick said. Davis "must obtain a parliamentary authorization to take steps which will lead large elements of the statute book to be rendered insensible."The Metropolitan Police said Wednesday that they had arrested a 55-year-old man in Swindon for making online threats to Miller. He was released on bail. Another man from Fife in Scotland was given a cease-and-desist order on Dec. 3 as part of the same investigation, the police said.