Sign up to receive the Brexit Bulletin in your inbox, and follow @Brexit on Twitter.Brexit Britain fought back overnight.A week after the ruling Conservative party lost a parliamentary seat to the anti-Brexit Liberal Democrats, it retained Sleaford, where 62 percent of voters backed leaving the European Union in June’s referendum.Conservative candidate Caroline Johnson smiles in victory at the Seaford by-electionThe Tories won 54 percent of the vote, a little less than the 56 percent in last year’s general election, with the U.K. Independence Party in second place with a slightly reduced 13 percent. The Liberal Democrats, who won in Richmond a week ago, nibbled into the other party votes to claim third place, with 11 percent, ahead of Labour on 10 percent.The election was held after a Tory lawmaker resigned over Prime Minister Theresa May’s handling of the departure from the EU. The result underscores polling data suggesting that those who supported Brexit in June continue to do so, providing May with some strength as she prepares to open divorce talks in the new year.May got a boost from business on Thursday as McDonald’s shrugged off Brexit worries by switching its non-U.S. tax base to the U.K. from Luxembourg. The company said:“The reasons for changing the location of the corporate structure to the U.K. were sound before Brexit and remain so beyond it. These strengths are unlikely to change as the U.K. negotiates leaving the European Union.”Still, May received a nudge on Thursday from German Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel, who said she is taking “far too long” to activate the withdrawal.May’s government is signaling it will continue its membership in the EU’s emissions-trading market even after Brexit.As Bloomberg’s Alex Morales reports, the current thinking is that benefits such as continuity for businesses outweigh any advantages of leaving, according to a government official.The program caps greenhouse gas emissions for about 11,000 power stations and factories across Europe, allowing those who exceed their caps to buy permits from companies that undershoot them.South African billionaire Christo Wiese navigated the upheavals of apartheid and the creation of a free nation over more than five decades to build a $6 billion personal fortune.Christo Wiese, retail magnate, in Cape Town, South Africa, on Wednesday, August 17 2016. Pic: Waldo SwiegersHe moved to diversify last year after the sale of his biggest holding. The investment company in which he’s the top shareholder, Brait SE, plowed £1.6 billion ($2 billion) into Britain at exactly the wrong moment: the U.K. was on the threshold of voting for Brexit.As Janice Kew and Luca Casiraghi report on Friday, the hammering the pound took on that decision means Wiese’s 35 percent stake in Brait has since slumped by about $1 billion.Speaking by phone on Wednesday, 75-year-old Wiese said he remains sanguine about the loss. “The whole world is topsy turvy at the moment and it’s a difficult world to read. I didn’t expect Brexit, I’m still puzzled by how people are thinking.”The pound’s surge may be getting ahead of itself, according to the median estimate off economists in a Bloomberg Survey. The survey points to sterling dropping about 4 percent to $1.21 by the second quarter of next year.Former Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne isn’t experiencing any of the recessionary conditions he warned of if voters backed Brexit.The Daily Mirror reports on Friday that Osborne has made £500,000 for nine speeches since losing his job in June, the equivalent of £26,000 an hour.  And what about George’s old mate David Cameron, you ask? Well, he has resurfaced as well, photographed alongside former U.S. President George W. Bush and his wife Laura at a Texas basketball game.For more on Brexit follow Bloomberg on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, and see our full coverage at Bloomberg.com