The Indian e-commerce startup That’s Personal touts financial metrics venture capitalists typically salivate over: a consistent doubling of annual sales, gross margins exceeding 50 percent, low customer acquisition costs and strong repeat traffic. Yet not a single big-name investor has bitten.Samir SaraiyaInevitably, a handful of thriving copycats have entered the market. That&apos;s Personal says it has stayed ahead with a broad range of merchandise and exclusive deals with big manufacturers. The company also has made an art of discretion. To thwart prying relatives or domestic helpers, packages are unmarked and the invoices cagily euphemistic: racy lingerie is "one-piece apparel;" massage cream a "one-piece novelty item." Customers who live with their parents or extended families have asked That&apos;s Personal to relabel the actual products. Saraiya is considering such a service for an extra fee.




 Exclusive insights on technology around the world.
 

 Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The prudence appeals to buyers like Nayha Mehta, a Mumbai businesswoman, who used to trek to a distant drugstore to buy even tampons. When a friend mentioned That’s Personal, Mehta found the shopping liberating. On her 40th birthday earlier this year, she gifted herself massage oils, mood candles and naughty games. She won&apos;t share her complete shopping list because "people will judge me." But she intends to get more adventurous.