Theresa MayU.K. Prime Minister Theresa May agreed to reveal more details of her plans for Brexit but challenged lawmakers to back her proposed timetable for withdrawing from the European Union.May on Tuesday accepted the wording of an opposition Labour Party motion seeking more details on her Brexit plans, subject to an amendment calling for the government to invoke Article 50 of the EU’s Lisbon Treaty -- the formal trigger for Brexit -- by March 31, 2017. The House of Commons will debate the motion Wednesday. It’s the second time in two months the premier has accepted a Labour motion by attaching her own caveats, after a similar call for more parliamentary scrutiny of Brexit was passed on Oct. 12.May is trying to avert a rebellion within her own Conservative Party after former Business Minister Anna Soubry told BBC Radio on Monday that as many as 40 Tories were prepared to support Labour in its quest for more parliamentary scrutiny of the government’s negotiating plans. The prime minister has repeatedly said she wants to start Brexit talks by the end of March, and her amendment seeks to prevent lawmakers from delaying that.“We have been very clear that what we want to see is the government given maximum flexibility that it requires to start the negotiating process,” May’s spokesman, Greg Swift, told reporters in London on Tuesday. “We don’t believe that the government should go into that negotiating process with its hands tied, and we believe the government has the power to trigger Article 50 by the end of March next year and that is what we are going to do.”The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, will decide on Wednesday morning whether or not to accept the Tory amendment for debate. Its wording was posted on Twitter by a Conservative lawmaker, Steve Baker.May has refused to flesh out her stance on Brexit, saying repeatedly that she doesn’t want to give her EU counterparts an advantage by revealing her plans too soon. While she’s said she wants to regain control over immigration from the EU, free Britain from the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice and enable the country to strike free-trade deals, she has yet to clearly state whether Britain should remain in the EU’s single market and customs union. It wasn’t immediately clear how much more information the premier intends to release.“I’m going to keep some cards close to my chest,” May told the BBC on Tuesday. “I’m sure everybody would realize that in a negotiation you don’t give everything away. It’s important that we are able to achieve the right deal for the U.K.”Separately from the outcome of Wednesday’s debate, the government is also appealing against a High Court decision that it needs the approval of Parliament before triggering Article 50. Four days of Supreme Court hearings began on Monday, with the court expected to rule next month.Labour’s spokesman on Brexit, Keir Starmer, said the amendment “is a welcome and hugely significant climbdown from the government.”“We have had unnecessary uncertainty, speculation and a running commentary on the government’s likely approach,” Starmer said in an e-mailed statement. “The government have now agreed to publish that plan, and to do so before Article 50 is invoked. Labour will hold the government to account on this. We will also push for a plan to be published no later than January 2017.”




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Labour’s motion seeks to recognize “that leaving the EU is the defining issue facing the U.K.” and that “it is Parliament’s responsibility to properly scrutinize the government while respecting the decision of the British people to leave the European Union.” It also says that “there should be no disclosure of material that could be reasonably judged to damage the U.K. in any negotiations to depart” from the bloc.“I can’t see anything in it that I don’t approve of and couldn’t support,” Soubry said. “I’ve never voted against my government. I’ve always been very loyal -- but these things are incredibly important. This actually transcends party politics and tribalism.”Earlier on Tuesday, the EU signaled that May must first strike a deal for the U.K.’s post-Brexit trade ties with the bloc or lose out on a transitional phase that banks and businesses want. Michel Barnier, the EU’s chief negotiator, told reporters in Brussels that there might be “some point” to granting British industries a period to adjust to the new arrangements after Brexit, but that would depend on a permanent trade plan being agreed.