U.K. outsourcing company Capita Plc plans to sell several divisions, including one that serves financial firms, and cut more than 2,000 jobs as a Brexit-fueled slowdown weighs on orders.The planned disposals come amid growing uncertainty among U.K.-based financial-services companies about the terms of the U.K.’s departure from the European Union. That has made clients reluctant to sign new deals, compounding problems stemming from internal missteps, Capita said. “We’ve not performed as well as we’d have liked in recent months,” Chief Executive Officer Andy Parker said in an interview. “This is partly because of challenging market conditions, as we’ve seen clients cut back on what we’d describe as discretionary elements, but also because of some structural issues we’ve seen inside our business.”Capita shares were down 8 percent at 521.50 pence as of 8:45 a.m. in London.Last month the company, which operates London’s automotive congestion charging system, announced it would reorganize 11 divisions to six. That will drop to five with the planned sale of the asset-services division, which works with fund companies and other financial clients. The changes are aimed at reducing debt and simplifying operations, the company said.Other cost-cutting measures include the moving of some IT operations to India and the introduction of more automation over the next two years, the company said. That will reduce Capita’s headcount, which totaled about 69,000 as of December 2015, by roughly 3 percent, Parker said. The job cuts do not include asset sales, a spokesman said.Capita’s stock plunged to a 20-year low in September after the company reported financial results that fell below estimates. In its trading update Thursday, it said it continues to face headwinds.“Since Capita last updated the market in September, trading has remained challenging across some of our divisional businesses,” the statement said. “Specifically, performance in our IT enterprise services division has weakened further.”The company reduced its guidance for full-year underlying pretax profit, saying it would be at least 515 million pounds ($652 million), down from a range of 535 million to 555 million pounds provided in September. That was already reduced from a previous forecast of 614 million pounds.The Capita businesses for sale are expected to generate operating profit of as much as 70 million pounds this year, the company said in a statement Thursday. As Brexit hits U.K. operations, Capita sees continental European countries such as Germany and Switzerland as a growth opportunity, Parker said.Other U.K. outsourcing providers have also reported Brexit-related slowdowns. Mitie Group Plc, which provides office cleaners, baggage handlers and social workers, slumped in September.