Agustin Carstens, governor of Mexico's central bank, Banco de Mexico.Mexico Central Bank Governor Agustin Carstens is resigning his post next year to run the Bank for International Settlements, leaving the nation without its best-known policy maker amid new economic challenges from the Trump administration.The peso briefly extended its loss, falling as much as 1.4 percent after news broke Thursday, extending the worst performance this year among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Carstens will leave the central bank in July and join the BIS in October, according to a central bank statement.In his time at the helm of Banco de Mexico, Carstens helped bring inflation to its slowest in more than four decades even as the board cut interest rates to a record low and the peso tumbled to the weakest level since 1993."Agustin was invited to go to the BIS bank, which is a distinction for a Mexican and a distinction and recognition for Mexico, not only because of the prestige and talent and capacity that Agustin Carstens has, but because of the confidence reflected during his own tenure," Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said at a Bloomberg summit in Mexico City.The resignation was reported earlier by Forbes and TV Azteca.Carstens’ departure, just as the outlook for U.S. and Mexico joint trade policies sour, may increase volatility in its currency markets. The central bank raised its key interest rate a half point last month to 5.25 percent, the highest since 2009, after Trump’s election dragged the currency to a record low. Carstens once likened Trump to "a hurricane"."It is a negative development from the perspective that investors in Mexico and abroad viewed him as a strong anchor of Mexico’s macroeconomic policies," said Alonso Cervera, chief Latin America economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. "The timing is unfortunate in light of the increased uncertainties that Mexico faces" after the U.S. election, he said.In an interview with Bloomberg TV on Thursday, Manuel Sanchez, a deputy central bank governor, said Carstens’s departure is a loss for Banco de Mexico and called him a great leader.




 Your cheat sheet on life, in one weekly email.
 

 Get our weekly Game Plan newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 




Carstens, 58, was tapped as head of the central bank’s five-member rate-setting board by then-President Felipe Calderon and took the helm in 2010, with Euromoney naming him its central bank governor of the year in 2013. Two years earlier, he lost out in his bid to head the IMF to France’s Christine Lagarde. The “IMF’s loss has been Mexico’s gain,” Euromoney said. Carstens previously served as Calderon’s finance minister and before that as a Deputy Managing Director at the IMF.The 86-year-old BIS, known as the central bank for central banks, oversees financial and monetary stability. It’s also home to the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and hosts the Financial Stability Board, chaired by Bank of England Governor Mark Carney.Headquartered in Basel, Switzerland, it has two representative offices, one of which is in Mexico City.