Nissan's Kochhar: We Are Optimistic About Asean GrowthNissan Motor Co., the Japanese automaker that’s become symbolic of what it means to be a truly global manufacturer, has a simple plan to navigate an unprecedented level of uncertainty around policy and regulation: focus on what’s in its control.“The regulations are not in our control, but what is in our control is that we stay competitive cost-wise, technology-wise, product-wise,” Rakesh Kochhar, Nissan’s senior vice president of global treasury and sales finance, said Thursday at the Bloomberg Asean Business Summit in Hanoi.The global head of Nissan’s $90 billion automotive finance business said he’s confident the Yokohama, Japan-based carmaker will be able to work with any administration in a constructive manner.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Global carmakers have long benefited from open borders with everything from shipping cars to assembling them occurring across markets worldwide. That’s now under scrutiny following the election of Donald Trump, who campaigned on a promise to toughen America’s trade stance with Mexico and Japan. The president-elect has threatened a 35 percent tariff on any vehicles Ford Motor Co. builds in Mexico and ships back to the U.S., a levy carmakers fear he’d apply industrywide.While Nissan wasn’t singled out on the campaign trail, the automaker is the largest producer in Mexico, and is growing. It started building cars in the country 50 years ago and produced 830,000 vehicles last year.Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn has brokered a deal with Daimler AG to jointly produce Infiniti and Mercedes luxury cars from a new Mexico plant scheduled to begin production next year.“The Trump factor could have a pretty big impact on the overall auto industry around the world,” Richard Hanna, who heads PwC’s automotive practice, said at a briefing Thursday in Beijing. “If you look at the global industries around the world, the automobile industry is probably the most global industry there is.”Nissan in October completed the acquisition of a $2.3 billion stake in Mitsubishi Motors Corp., which admitted months earlier to improperly measuring fuel economy and manipulating test data. Ghosn, who’s also the CEO of French automaker Renault SA, will take over as chairman of scandal-plagued Mitsubishi Motors in a bid to turn around a third major car company.Mitsubishi Motors and Nissan have agreed to share plug-in hybrid and autonomous-driving technology and a multipurpose vehicle model for markets in Southeast Asia. The largest opportunity for synergies will be in joint purchasing, Kochhar said.Nissan has sales finance operations in Thailand, Indonesia and Australia, a business Mitsubishi Motors lacks in Southeast Asia.“This is where we can help them, in financing their dealers, financing their retail customers and that will also help build a market in the region,” Kochhar said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.