This photo taken on June 20, 2016 shows young Nigeriens picking melons in a field by the River Yobe, known locally as the Komadougou, near Diffa. After the region's governor forbid access to farmable areas, evacuated all populations of islands in Lake Chad (25,000, part of which took refuge in Diffa), suspended trade of the main local wealth and instituted a night curfew following constant attacks by Boko Haram fighters, most farmers have now turned into displaced people depending on international aid. / AFP / ISSOUF SANOGO (Photo credit should read ISSOUF SANOGO/AFP/Getty Images)Nigeria plans to capitalize its state-owned Bank of Agriculture with 1 trillion naira ($3.2 billion) and will authorize the lender to take deposits as Africa’s most populous nation seeks to boost farming output and reduce food imports.“We are looking at 25 million farmers” as stakeholders or depositors, Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Audu Ogbeh said in an interview Monday in the capital, Abuja. “We are probably going to take a major step by the end of this year, and by February, March, have a structure in place for the changes we want to carry out.”Nigeria’s economy contracted in the first nine months of the year as the output of oil, the government’s main source of revenue, dropped due to attacks by militant groups on pipelines in the Niger River delta and prices remained low. Farming, which mostly consists of crop production, including cocoa, accounts for more than 25 percent of gross domestic product, and has expanded every quarter of 2016, while factory output and mining, which includes the oil industry, shrank, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.The Bank of Agriculture will start lending for farming projects at an interest rate of less than 10 percent compared to commercial market rates, which are currently more than double that, Ogbeh said.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The central bank kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 14 percent on Nov. 24 as it seeks to support an economy forecast by the International Monetary Fund to contract 1.7 percent this year while trying to curb inflation, which quickened to an 11-year high of 18.3 percent in October. Food prices rose 17.1 percent from a year earlier, partly due to the high price of imported food after the naira lost almost 40 percent of its value against the dollar following the abandonment of a currency peg in June.The government plans to distribute 110 rice mills across the country over the next two months at a subsidy of 40 percent, Ogbeh said. These measures will help boost production and reduce food imports, which was was worth about 1.2 trillion naira last year, according to statistics bureau data, he said.