For Daniel So, the reason for the sudden selloff in Macau casino shares isn’t all that important.Valuations are what matter to the CMB International Securities Ltd. strategist, and those are telling him the selloff has further to go. After reaching the most expensive level versus Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index in seven years this week, a Bloomberg gauge of Macau casino shares still trades at a premium of more than 130 percent.“Stock prices have risen by so much and over-reflected the recovery in the industry,” So said in an interview from Hong Kong on Friday. “It’s just a matter of time before the share prices have a significant correction.”So spoke after the South China Morning Post reported China is imposing a cut on UnionPay ATM daily withdrawal limits in Macau, sending casino stocks tumbling. Shares pared losses after UnionPay International said its overseas withdrawal limits were unchanged, though it was unclear if that applied to Macau or whether the cap will be adjusted in future. An analyst at Union Gaming said the planned change will apply to individual transactions, rather than the daily cap.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




SCMP’s report triggered investor concern that China’s spate of new capital controls in recent weeks will extend to Macau’s $30 billion gaming industry. The Macau government has had some restrictions on UnionPay debit cards since 2014, when it ordered jewelry shops and pawnshops on casino floors to remove the company’s card terminals amid suspicion they were being used to get money out of mainland China.Read more: Friday’s plunge in casino sharesA spokesman for Macau’s monetary authority didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the SCMP report.Friday’s rout in Hong Kong-listed casino shares followed an 84 percent gain in the BI Macau China Gaming Market Competitive Peers Index from this year’s low on Jan. 21. While gross gaming revenue in the former Portuguese colony rose for the fourth straight month in November, So says stock investors have been overestimating the strength of the industry’s rebound.The BI Macau index is valued at 27 times estimated earnings for the next 12 months, versus 11 times for the Hang Seng index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Macau gauge’s 134 percent premium compares with a five-year average of 64 percent.“The recovery will be quite weak,” So said. “It doesn’t justify the strong surge in stock prices.”