Marcelo Odebrecht Photographer: Heuler Andrey/AFP/Getty ImagesU.S. and Brazilian authorities are set to impose $2.5 billion in foreign-corruption penalties on Odebrecht SA, Latin America’s biggest construction company, and an affiliate for violating anti-bribery laws, people familiar with the discussions said.Prosecutors say Odebrecht and the affiliate, Braskem SA, paid officials at Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the state-run oil producer known as Petrobras, to win contracts. Odebrecht and Braskem will plead guilty to charges involving the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, three people said. A Swiss investigation of Odebrecht may also be a part of the settlement, one of the people said.“Odebrecht recognizes it participated in inappropriate practices,” the company said in a written statement on Thursday after a Bloomberg News report that more than 60 company executives were signing plea agreements in the case. “It was a grave mistake, a violation of our principles, an aggression to values of honesty and ethics. We won’t allow it to happen again.”Earlier: The Undoing of a Brazil Giant, Told by Bankers Fearing the WorstIn all, the penalties would set a record for a multi-country corruption settlement. The bulk of the fines will be paid to Brazil by Odebrecht, one of the people said. Braskem is expected to pay about $700 million, the person said. The previous record for anti-bribery penalties was imposed against Siemens AG, which in 2008 paid $800 million to the U.S. for FCPA violations and another $800 million to German authorities.The fines would be the first corporate penalties in the U.S. to come out of the nearly three-year investigation known as Operation Carwash, which initially focused on illicit payments made to executives at Petrobras. The probe then spread to other industries in Brazil, implicating construction companies, banks, shipyards and leading politicians from several parties.The companies have agreed in principle to the settlements, but finalizing the agreements could take some time, people familiar with the matter said. Odebrecht and Braskem are signing a joint leniency agreement that would ease restrictions on their businesses, the people said. Braksem is 38 percent owned by Odebrecht and 36 percent held by Petrobras, according to its website.Marcelo Odebrecht, the grandson of the company’s founder, stepped down as chief executive officer after his arrest last year. He was convicted of 11 counts of active corruption involving $64 million in bribes to Petrobras agents and was sentenced to more than 19 years in jail.Odebrecht didn’t respond to requests for comment. Braskem and a lawyer for Marcelo Odebrecht declined to comment. A spokesman for the U.S. attorney general’s office didn’t immediately respond to an after-hours inquiry. Judy Burns, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, declined to comment.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Operation Carwash, Brazil’s biggest-ever corruption case, originated as a money-laundering probe. Some of the money paid to Petrobras eventually went into funding the country’s political parties, prosecutors have alleged. Insiders at Petrobras and a cartel of contractors allegedly siphoned vast sums from inflated construction and service contracts. Prosecutors at one point detained former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil for questioning, setting off several days of street protests.Investigators probed possible payoffs at projects including two related to the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, according to court documents. Notes seized from an Odebrecht executive showed a table of payments to more than 200 politicians.The investigation sent ripples through the country’s construction and energy sectors. Three major builders -- OAS SA, Galvao Engenharia and Grupo Schahin -- filed for bankruptcy protection for some of their units after the allegations choked off access to bond financing.Prosecutors in the U.S. and Brazil have been effectively dividing the investigation to suit their respective strengths as they pursue suspected graft related to Petrobras, people familiar with the matter said in May. Brazilian law allows authorities to file criminal graft charges against people but not companies, whereas the U.S. has been more successful pursuing companies accused of corruption.