Pedestrians pass a branch of Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA bank in Rome, Italy, on Dec. 5.Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA requested more time from the European Central Bank to complete a plan to raise 5 billion euros ($5.4 billion) by private means as the troubled lender struggles to attract new investors.Monte Paschi’s board asked the ECB to extend the deadline to boost capital until Jan. 20 “due to the changed reference context,” the Siena-based bank said in a statement late Wednesday. The current deadline is Dec. 31.The bank’s decision comes after Italian voters overwhelmingly rejected Prime Minister Matteo Renzi’s proposed constitutional reforms in a referendum, prompting him to announce his resignation on Monday and increasing uncertainty about the country’s struggling banking industry.




 The most important market news of the day.
 

 Get our markets daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Business
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.


 You will now receive the Business newsletter
 





Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




Chief Executive Officer Marco Morelli crisscrossed the globe to explain how the bank can rebound by shedding 28 billion euros of bad loans, raising capital and reorganizing its business. Monte Paschi advisers are in talks to win the commitment of investors including sovereign funds, people have said. A failure of the plan would make it more likely that the bank will turn to the Italian state for fresh money, which will force losses on shareholders and bondholders.Monte Paschi, which reported a loss of 1.15 billion euros in the third quarter, was told by the European Central Bank to clean up its balance sheet and bolster finances after it emerged as the most vulnerable lender in a European stress test in July.Read more: Italian Banks Extend Gains as Italy Said to Weigh Paschi RescueThe firm, hurt by derivatives deals that hid losses under previous management, has received 4 billion euros in taxpayer bailouts, most of which it has repaid, and 8 billion euros from investors since 2009. Many of the Monte Paschi debtors who could lose out in a state rescue are individuals with savings accounts at the bank.The firm’s plan has three interlocking pieces: a debt-for-equity swap, a stock offering and the disposal of a pile of soured loans. In the debt swap, bondholders agreed to exchange more than 1 billion euros of subordinated notes for shares. But that won’t happen if the bank can’t raise new money as well.The failure of the recapitalization would be a blow to Italy’s sputtering efforts to revive a banking industry that’s burdened with about 360 billion euros in troubled loans, dragging down the economy by limiting lending. Earlier this year, the state helped orchestrate a bank fund to rescue Banca Popolare di Vicenza SpA and Veneto Banca SpA after investors snubbed their initial public offerings and approved a law to guarantee bad loans and ease their sale.