British Land Co. and GIC Pte, Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund, are considering developing a shopping mall at London’s Broadgate office complex as they seek to become less dependent on financial services tenants, according to two people familiar with their thinking.The joint venture owners are evaluating opportunities for the redevelopment of 1 & 2 Broadgate, an office building principally leased to broker ICAP Plc until 2019, the people said, asking not to be identified because the deliberations are private. A mall is one of several options and designs are at an early stage, the people said. Spokesmen for British Land and GIC declined to comment.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




British Land, the U.K.’s second largest real estate investment trust, and GIC have been transforming Broadgate “from a high quality financial hub into the beginning of a broader-based campus,” Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg said on a May 16 earnings call. The landlords aim to add as much as 400,000 square-feet of stores at the Broadgate complex, Grigg said. That’s the equivalent of 80 percent of the space in the Gherkin skyscraper.About 17 percent of British Land’s rental income comes from financial-services companies such as UBS Group AG, whose new London headquarters overlooks the ICAP building, Grigg said. More than 1,900 firms are likely to review their London office-space requirements following the Brexit vote, real estate researcher DealX said in July.The value of Broadgate fell about 5.5 percent in the six months through September, British Land said in an earnings statement last month. The 4.7 million square-foot campus, the biggest in London’s financial district, is valued at about 4.4 billion pounds, according to Green Street Advisors LLC.