The MI6 building in London.Unless Russia changes its strategy in the conflict in Syria, the U.K. will never be safe from terrorist threats from the region, the head of the U.K.’s Secret Intelligence Service said in a rare speech Thursday.“Legitimacy is the strongest weapon against international terrorism,” Alex Younger said in the first ever speech to be made inside the London headquarters of the agency, also known as MI6. “The Russian conduct in Syria, allied with that of Assad’s discredited regime, will, if they do not change course, provide a tragic example of the perils of forfeiting legitimacy.”Russian forces have been working alongside the troops of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to oust rebels from the northern city of Aleppo. The Russian support for the regime runs counter to existing U.S. and European policy in opposing Assad and backing moderate rebel groups.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




“The plight of the Syrians continues to worsen,” Younger told journalists. “I cannot say with any certainty what the next year will bring. But what I do know is this -- we cannot be safe from the threats that emanate from that land unless the civil war is brought to an end. And brought to an end in a way that recognizes the interests of more than a minority of its peoples and their international backers.”The U.K.’s spy agencies have, in recent months, made an effort to put more of a public face on what they do as they look to recruit record numbers of agents. The pointed Russian remarks came in a speech that was less specific about other states and threats to the country’s security. MI6 -- an agency that has been dogged by image problems in the past thanks to its associations with elite education and class -- has sought to encourage a more diverse recruitment process.