Nana Akufo-Addo, opposition presidential candidate for the New Patriotic Party, greets supporters in Accra Ghana, on Dec. 8, 2016.Ghanaian opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo won presidential elections in West Africa’s second-biggest economy, beating incumbent John Mahama.“It’s my duty and privilege to declare Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo as president-elect of the Republic of Ghana,” Charlotte Osei, chairman of the nation’s electoral commission, said on Joy News, a television broadcaster based in the capital, Accra.Akufo-Addo won 53.9 percent of the vote against 44.4 percent for Mahama, Osei said.




 The most important business stories of the day.
 

 Get Bloomberg&apos;s daily newsletter.
 





 Sign Up
 











Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.


 You will now receive the Politics newsletter
 





Markets
The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes.


 You will now receive the Markets newsletter
 





Technology
Insights into what you&apos;ll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.


 You will now receive the Technology newsletter
 





Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.


 You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
 





Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.


 You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
 




The 72-year-old former lawyer and leader of the New Patriotic Party emerged as winner after pledging to create jobs and reignite West Africa’s second-biggest economy that’s seen faltering growth amid power outages and low prices for main exports oil, cocoa and gold. Mahama, of the National Democratic Congress, assumed office after the death of President John Atta Mills in July 2012, and was elected in December that year. He is the first leader who’s been refused a second term since Ghana returned to democratic rule in 1992.Akufo-Addo lost two earlier elections in 2008 and 2012 with a small margin and contested some 2012 vote results in court. He was an outspoken campaigner against military rule in the 1980s and served as foreign minister from 2003 to 2007, during the eight-year reign of the NPP.