SANDVIKEN, Sweden--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cutting tool and tooling systems specialist Sandvik Coromant has signed an agreement to become a Premium Partner of leading machine tool manufacturer, DMG MORI. The deal makes Sandvik Coromant the only tooling manufacturer to be named as a DMG MORI Premium Partner, and will serve to further strengthen the relationship between the companies on a global scale. Machine shops around the world will now benefit from the combined knowledge and experience of two market leaders.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006306/en/ 
As a DMG MORI Premium Partner, Sandvik Coromant will work together with the machine tool builder on initiatives such as open house events, trade show appearances, technical seminars, website collaboration and the DMG MORI Journal. Specifically, the agreement will give users of DMG MORI machines access to turning, parting and grooving, threading, milling, drilling, boring and reaming tools from Sandvik Coromant, as well as tooling systems and the company’s extensive range of knowledge, industry solutions and services.
“This agreement confirms our position as one of our industry's true premium and forward-looking companies,” says Klas Forsström, Global President of Sandvik Coromant. “As we join forces with a leading machine tool builder, for example on turnkey projects, we take an active role in advancing technology for the industry.”
Sandvik Coromant will equip DMG MORI machines right from the start of each project with a wide range of products, services and know-how. For instance, a customised start-up tool kit and service will be supplied with each NLX series universal lathe and NT turn-mill centre.
An example of the successful collaboration between Sandvik Coromant and DMG MORI can be seen when the pair recently partnered with Rota Metal, a distributor in Turkey, and its customer, Polat Makina.
Polat, a producer of decanter and separator technologies utilised for wastewater treatment, industrial, mineral and food applications, was ready to make the switch from individual machining to multi-tasking machines. Here, Sandvik Coromant was able to recommend a complete new tooling package based upon the company’s Coromant Capto® modular quick-change tooling concept. The DMG MORI machines included an NTX 2000 with Capto C6 spindle, an NT 5400 with Capto C8 spindle, and an NT 6600 with Capto C8 spindle. Further Sandvik Coromant tools specified to help complete the switch included Silent Tools®, CoroTurn® HP, CoroCut® SL, CoroDrill® 860, CoroTap® 300, CoroChuck® 970 and CoroChuck 930. The end result was reduced machining time, from 2500 to 500 minutes for a finished Duplex stainless steel product. This 80% saving is helping ensure rapid return on the company’s investment.
“Sandvik Coromant did not just supply the tools, they supplied the solution,” says Volkan Polat, deputy general manager of Polat Makina.
About Sandvik Coromant
Photo Caption: (L-R) Dr. Masahiko Mori, CEO, DMG MORI; Klas Forsström, President Sandvik Coromant; Christian Thönes, Chairman of Executive Board, DMG MORI; Björn Roodzant, VP Marketing Communication; Sean Holt, General Manager Sales Area Americas
Download image here.
www.sandvik.coromant.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006306/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006306/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}