DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Stepper Motor Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2022" report to their offering.
The global stepper motor market is driven by increasing demand for energy-efficient and precise motion control. The growing level of automation along with high expenditure on medical electronic products in economically emerging countries are among key growth catalysts for the market. The stepper motor market is facing stiff competition from servo motors, especially in high-power, closed-loop applications. The demand for automation solutions in the packaging and labeling industry has grown significantly. The modern stepper motor integrated packaging machineries are more efficient, reliable and productive at a reduced cost, which is a trend witnessed in the global stepper motor market. Waterproof stepper motors have facilitated corrosion-free operation of motors used in the food and beverage packaging industry.
The stepper motor market in the medical equipment industry is expected to witness the fastest growth during the forecast period. Applications such as raising and lowering a hospital bed need stepper motors. Moreover, a stepper motor offers constant rotational speed in ventilator systems. During recent years, stepper motors witnessed high demand from the manufacturing unit of X-ray machines, IV pumps, and blood analyzers. An application such as an oxygen concentrator uses a stepper motor in fans for cooling. The compact size and low noise makes stepper motors a preferred choice for medical applications.
Asia-Pacific accounted for about 45% share of the global stepper motor market in 2015. Europe is expected to be the slowest-growing market of stepper motors during the forecast period, owing to lower industrial output along with downward migration of manufacturing industries.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Global Stepper Motor Market Size And Forecast (2012-2022)
5. Global Stepper Motor Market, By Geography
6. Competitive Positioning And Market Share Analysis
7. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/m678wl/global_stepper.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006459/en/