HONG KONG--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Accenture (ACN) has opened a flagship location for Accenture Interactive in Hong Kong, a more than 40,000-square-foot studio space that will serve as a go-to destination for the company’s clients to co-create, innovate and apply the latest digital technologies and experiences to shape the way we live and work. It is the digital agency’s new Hong Kong location where clients will have full access to the digital capabilities of Accenture Interactive, Fjord and PacificLink to help transform their businesses, ranging from innovation to strategy, experience design, creative content and technology – all under one roof.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006583/en/ 
Located at One Island East in Quarry Bay, Accenture Interactive Studios serves as a catalyst to invent, create and deliver disruptive digital solutions. There clients can get hands-on with and apply leading technologies to solve critical business challenges and reimagine customer experiences in an innovative workspace equipped with all the tools needed to build and test protoypes in an agile manner.
“Our Hong Kong digital studios are meant to inspire – not just our people but also our clients – who want to create the next, transformative customer experiences with us,” said Brian Whipple, global head of Accenture Interactive. “Our goal is to balance forward-thinking innovation with the practicality of applying it now in an environment that promotes agility, co-creation and experimentation to help our clients innovate in the ‘new.’ Together we not only imagine the future but we actually deliver it.”
Accenture Interactive Studios brings together end-to-end digital customer experience services for clients, including digital strategy, creative ideation, service design, marketing campaigns, content and technical implementation. Clients – working with Accenture Interactive teams – are able to tap into a range of forward-thinking capabilities and amenities, including:
“We designed the space to be a manifestation of our principles – it’s all about the experience, for our people and for our clients,” said Jason Chau, head of Accenture Interactive in Greater China. “Through our combination of creativity, marketing and technology, we’re creating a unique services model and value proposition unlike the typical agency or consulting players in the market. And all housed in a progressive workspace meant to inspire and to foster innovation.”
Accenture Studios are a key element of the Accenture Innovation Architecture which brings together the company’s capabilities – from research, ventures and labs to studios, innovation centers and delivery centers – to develop and deliver disruptive innovations for clients, and to scale them faster.
The Hong Kong studios are a critical part of Accenture’s digital business footprint in Greater China, which also includes its Analytics and Mobility businesses. In June, the company launched the Accenture Digital Centre of Excellence (DCoE) in Shanghai. The company plans to expand Accenture Interactive Studios into mainland China in the future.
About Accenture
Accenture (ACN) is a leading global professional services company, providing a broad range of services and solutions in strategy, consulting, digital, technology and operations. Combining unmatched experience and specialized skills across more than 40 industries and all business functions – underpinned by the world’s largest delivery network – Accenture works at the intersection of business and technology to help clients improve their performance and create sustainable value for their stakeholders. With approximately 384,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries, Accenture drives innovation to improve the way the world works and lives. Visit us at www.accenture.com.
Accenture Interactive, part of Accenture Digital, helps the world’s leading brands drive superior marketing performance across the full multichannel customer experience. Accenture Interactive offers integrated, industrialized and industry-driven digital transformation and marketing solutions. It was recently named by Ad Age as the world’s largest and fastest-growing digital agency. To learn more follow us @Accenture Social and visit www.accenture.com/interactive.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006583/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006583/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}