IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cylance® Inc., the company revolutionizing cybersecurity with the practical application of artificial intelligence to prevent the most advanced cyber threats, is announcing the launch of its 2017 Cylance Partner Program for channel partners.
The Cylance Partner Program offers award-winning products and a broad spectrum of services along with a wealth of support and benefits that help the company’s channel partners succeed. Cylance’s unique, patented product mix offers a cloud-based, lightweight solution that is immediately effective in protecting customers’ perimeters, even if endpoints are not connected to the Internet. This makes it easier for partners to generate high value and margin through a new range of utility-based service models, and increase their strategic security practices and offerings to their customers.
“There is a bigger problem than the volume of attacks, and it is a global issue. There are simply not enough trained personnel in IT Security to respond quickly enough to attacks, and other solutions operate on the premise that it is not only acceptable, it is inevitable that some attacks will get past security defenses. Pairing Cylance’s advanced artificial intelligence malware detection capabilities and security expertise with our channel partners’ proficiency, we are now able to offer the highest value security protection to everyone under the sun,” said Didi Dayton, Cylance’s vice president of worldwide channels. “Partners appreciate the clear operational benefit from Cylance being fully ready to protect from day one. The Cylance channel mission is go to war on inefficiency and shelf-ware, and shift the focus for customers away from reactive threat detection and poorly deployed solutions to full deployment and auto-quarantining threats across 80% of their systems within the first quarter of the investment. We want partners to be not only relevant, but absolutely critical to the success of the projects they are involved in because they can set quarantining and drastic reduction in both helpdesk tickets and machine re-images as realistic objectives. When projects are completed, and customers are protected, compliant and fully operational, then partners look good.”
Cylance takes partnering to a new level and one example of the more unique offerings includes benefits for partners whose customers are over 80 percent deployed and the opportunity for a partner to nominate a non-profit organization of their choosing to secure with Cylance, at no cost. Often, non-profits are most vulnerable to attacks due to the lack of funding and resources – an issue that Cylance hopes to address by offering its product free of charge. This unique program from Cylance, in combination with its technology offering, will help partners focus their discussions on the importance and impact that securing their endpoints can have on their organizations, employees and customers.
Gary Leibowitz, executive vice president of business development at ERASCO Group in Houston, Texas said, “The proof is in the actual deployments. Cylance is delivering on their promise to protect organizations right from the very first day. With Cylance’s use of artificial intelligence, usability suddenly becomes a non–issue, the solution gets put into place and just works without users noticing something is on their system.”
The Cylance Partner Program enables partners to offer streamlined preventive security solutions, ease-of-use, and support options that actually enable their customers’ businesses, rather than hindering them. Partners expedite the onboarding and training processes to assure that their customers can get the protection they need, from day one. The Cylance Partner Program encompasses solution providers and distributors, cloud and managed service providers, technology, system integrator, and alliance partners, as well as OEM partners. The program is tailored to each partner type and designed to reward the highest level of commitment with the highest level of benefits.
“CylancePROTECT, in my opinion, and the opinions of our sales team and technical people, and most importantly our customers, is quite a revolutionary product. It is changing the marketplace because we've had so much success,” said Audrey Lyon, general manager of sales for Aquion Pty. Ltd. in Australia.
Cylance Solution Provider partners resell Cylance products and services. Solution Provider partners include value-added resellers, national resellers, and distributors. There are four levels of Solution Provider partners: Emerald, Platinum, Gold, and National. With each of these tiers, customers will benefit from learning security best-practices, training for deploying and using Cylance’s endpoint security solution, and customized expertise in how to future-proof security for their organizations.
Hans Edin, chief marketing officer from SecureLink, said, "Teaming up with the best vendors is key to our success at SecureLink. Cylance and its amazing technology is solving difficult problems for customers today without requiring their security teams to learn difficult new tools or processes."
For more information about the benefits available to Cylance partners, or to apply to become a partner, please visit the Cylance website at www.cylance.com/partnerprogram.
About Cylance® Inc.
Cylance is the first company to apply artificial intelligence, algorithmic science and machine learning to cybersecurity to prevent the most advanced security threats in the world. Using a breakthrough predictive analysis process, CylancePROTECT® quickly and accurately identifies what is benign and what is a threat, and prevents malicious code from ever executing on a targeted system. By coupling advanced machine learning and artificial intelligence with a unique understanding of an attacker’s mentality, Cylance provides technology and services that are truly predictive and preventive against the most advanced threats. For more information visit: http://www.cylance.com/.
Cylance and CylancePROTECT are registered trademarks or trademarks owned by Cylance Inc. in the United States and other jurisdictions and may not be used without prior written permission. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.
Social NetworksBlog: blog.cylance.comTwitter: http://www.twitter.com/CylanceIncLinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/cylanceincYouTube: www.youtube.com/cylanceinc

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006299/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}