DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Aircraft Landing Gear Market by Type (Main, Nose), Platform (Fixed Wing, Rotary Wing), Application (Commercial, Business, Military), Aircraft Type (NBA, WBA, VLA, RTA), and Region - Global Forecast to 2021" report to their offering.
The global aircraft landing gear market is projected to grow from USD 9.71 billion in 2016 to USD 13.14 billion by 2021, at a CAGR of 6.23% from 2016 to 2021.
The growth of the global aircraft landing gear market is dependent on the increased number of deliveries of aircraft, ultralight aircraft, and unmanned aerial vehicles in various countries across the world.
Increase in the air passenger traffic across the globe, upgradation of aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems in military programs across the world, are the key factors driving the aircraft landing gear market across the globe. However, the existing aircraft production backlog is expected to hinder the market growth over the forecast period.
Based on platform, the global aircraft landing gear market has been segmented into the fixed wing, and rotary wing aircraft. The fixed wing segment is anticipated to account for the largest market share of the global aircraft landing gear market during the forecast period. The high growth of the fixed wing aircraft segment can be attributed to the increasing demand for commercial aircraft, business jets, and fighter jets, among others.
The commercial aviation segment is expected to be the fastest growing segment in the global aircraft landing gear market during the forecast period. The commercial aviation industry in the emerging regions such as the Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Latin America has been witnessing positive growth over the past few years.
As a result, there is a high demand for new aircraft from these regions and this trend is expected to continue over the next twenty years according to The Boeing Company and Airbus SAS. Hence, the growth in the commercial aviation industry is expected to drive the global aircraft landing gear market during the forecast period.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Introduction
2 Research Methodology
3 Executive Summary
4 Premium Insights
5 Market Overview
6 Industry Trends
7 Aircraft Landing Gear Market, by Type
8 Aircraft Landing Gear Market, by Platform
9 Aircraft Landing Gear Market, by Application
10 Aircraft Landing Gear Market, by Aircraft Type
11 Regional Analysis
12 Competitive Landscape
13 Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/n35m3r/aircraft_landing

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005467/en/