DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Anti-Aging Products Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The report forecasts the global anti-aging products market to grow at a CAGR of 5.46% during the period 2016-2020.
The report has been prepared based on an in-depth market analysis with inputs from industry experts. The report covers the market landscape and its growth prospects over the coming years. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
The demand for incorporating natural and organic anti-aging products is growing, as these products are safe and are of higher quality than most synthetic products. This trend is likely to continue during the forecast period. Natural oils like argan, marula, almond, and coconut are some popular ingredients used in organic anti-aging products.
According to the report, earlier, anti-aging creams were just used to temporarily plump up the skin to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles. But, today, advancements in technology have resulted in improved, advanced, and more value-added anti-aging products in the market. Consumers seek products which not only meet their basic requirements but also meet ancillary needs such as hydration and contain antioxidants.
Key vendors:
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by product
Part 07: Market segmentation by demography
Part 08: Market segmentation by retail format
Part 09: Geographical segmentation
Part 10: Key leading countries
Part 11: Market drivers
Part 12: Impact of drivers
Part 13: Market challenges
Part 14: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 15: Market trends
Part 16: Competitor landscape
Part 17: Key competitor analysis
Part 18: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/2vxxqk/global_antiaging

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005652/en/