NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research today issued its outlook for the markets in 2017 with cautious optimism for accelerating U.S. and global economic growth, improving corporate fundamentals, modest stock gains and higher yields on expectations of fiscal stimulus and regulatory policy easing. Full-on optimism is tempered by the rippling effects of rising inflation, a stronger dollar, weak credit markets, uncertain commodity pricing, and game-changing political events that raise the potential for big market swings.
“The outcomes of Brexit and the U.S. election have brought fundamental change, which equates to investor opportunity,” said Candace Browning, head of BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research. “If investors choose asset classes, sectors and stocks carefully, they can meaningfully outperform the market. 2017 could be the year of the active investor.”
At the annual presentation of BofA Merrill Lynch’s Year Ahead Outlook held today in New York, analysts from the top-ranked global research firm summarized their market views and the significant themes that will dominate in the year ahead.
Topping their list is the political ground shift, reflective of a contagious backlash to globalization. Spreading populist influence, starting with Brexit, followed by the election of Donald Trump and now looming over the eurozone, raises questions about trade policies that would affect government debt levels, rates, commodity prices and economic growth rates, particularly in emerging markets.
The overarching anti-globalization theme sets the tone of a new economic and investment cycle now underway. Against this backdrop, the BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research team made the following 10 macro calls for the year ahead.
Detailed highlights of BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research reports can be found here.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchThe BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research franchise covers almost 3,200 stocks and over 1,100 credits globally and ranks in the top tier in many external surveys. Most recently, the group was named Top Global Research Firm of 2015 by Institutional Investor magazine; No. 1 in the 2016 Institutional Investor All-Europe survey; No. 1 in the Institutional Investor 2016 Emerging EMEA Survey; No. 2 in the 2016 All-Europe Fixed Income survey; No. 2 in the 2016 Institutional Investor All-Asia survey; No. 2 in the 2016 Institutional Investor Latin America survey; No. 2 in the 2016 Institutional Investor All-America survey; and No. 2 in the 2016 All-America Fixed Income survey for the fifth consecutive year.
Bank of AmericaBank of America is one of the world’s leading financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving approximately 47 million consumer and small business relationships with approximately 4,600 retail financial centers, approximately 16,000 ATMs, and award-winning online banking with approximately 34 million active accounts and more than 21 million mobile active users. Bank of America is a global leader in wealth management, corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes, serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. Bank of America offers industry-leading support to approximately 3 million small business owners through a suite of innovative, easy-to-use online products and services. The company serves clients through operations in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and more than 35 countries. Bank of America Corporation stock (BAC) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
“Bank of America Merrill Lynch” is the marketing name for the global banking and global markets businesses of Bank of America Corporation. Lending, derivatives, and other commercial banking activities are performed globally by banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation, including Bank of America, N.A., member FDIC. Securities, strategic advisory, and other investment banking activities are performed globally by investment banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation (“Investment Banking Affiliates”), including, in the United States, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp., both of which are registered broker-dealers and Members of SIPC, and, in other jurisdictions, by locally registered entities. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp. are registered as futures commission merchants with the CFTC and are members of the NFA. Investment products offered by Investment Banking Affiliates: Are Not FDIC Insured * May Lose Value * Are Not Bank Guaranteed.
Visit the Bank of America newsroom for more Bank of America news, and click here to register for news email alerts.
www.bankofamerica.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005767/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}