HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
ExxonMobil announced today that it will become the Red Bull Racing Formula 1™ team’s official fuel, lubricant and motor oil partner in 2017. Under the agreement, ExxonMobil will supply Red Bull Racing with leading-edge Mobil 1™ lubricants and Synergy™ race fuels and provide engineering support to develop next-generation lubricants to improve race car engine and gearbox performance.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005169/en/ 
“Red Bull Racing provides a dynamic platform to showcase our advanced, high-performance lubricant and fuels technologies,” said Matt Bergeron, vice president of marketing for ExxonMobil Fuels, Lubricants & Specialties Marketing Company. “We are excited about building a relationship with Red Bull Racing’s excellent young drivers who are establishing reputations as competitive racers and who will help showcase our brands to generations of consumers.”
The Mobil 1 and Esso brands will be prominently displayed on Red Bull Racing race cars, driver overalls and helmets, as well as at the Red Bull Racing Factory in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, England, and trackside events.
“Red Bull Racing and Mobil 1 are two global brands that share a passion for racing, performance and innovation,” said Christian Horner, team principal of Red Bull Racing. “Mobil 1 has been an iconic brand in Formula 1 for more than 30 years and our new partnership provides us with a unique opportunity to tap into ExxonMobil’s world class expertise.”
The new ExxonMobil and Red Bull Racing partnership extends the Mobil 1 synthetic lubricant brand’s successful 38-year involvement in Grand Prix racing. Mobil 1 has lubricated more than 100 Grand Prix-winning cars, and has won six Formula 1 world drivers’ championships and five Formula 1 world constructors’ championships since entering the sport, first with the Williams Formula 1 team in 1978 and, most recently, with the McLaren Formula 1 team between 1995 and 2016.
About Mobil 1 in Motorsports
Racing provides the Mobil 1™ brand the ultimate testing ground to improve the technology in our range of oil and lubricants. Each race season, our advanced products go to work to help improve vehicle performance and efficiency. Mobil 1 full synthetic motor oil serves as the lubricant of choice for many of the world’s top race teams competing in highly demanding motorsports series. The knowledge we gain through these partnerships helps our scientists and engineers push the boundaries in developing cutting-edge technologies.
ExxonMobil remains proud partners with Stewart-Haas Racing in NASCAR’s Sprint Cup Series; Porsche, Bentley and TOYOTA GAZOO Racing in the FIA World Endurance Championship; Corvette Racing and Porsche North America in the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship; and numerous teams competing in the Pirelli World Challenge.
Along with its status as the Official Lubricant Technology Partner and Official Motor Oil of NASCAR, Mobil 1 serves as the title sponsor of the Porsche Mobil 1 Supercup and the Official Motor Oil of the Sports Car Club of America. Mobil 1 technology is trusted by more than 50 percent of teams in NASCAR’s top three series.
About Mobil 1
The world's leading synthetic motor oil brand, Mobil 1 features anti-wear technology that provides performance beyond our conventional motor oils. This technology allows Mobil 1 to meet or exceed the toughest standards of car builders and to provide exceptional protection against engine wear, under normal or even some of the most extreme conditions. Mobil 1 flows quickly in extreme temperatures to protect critical engine parts and is designed to maximize engine performance and help extend engine life.
For more information, visit mobil1.com, on Facebook, www.facebook.com/mobil1 and on Twitter @mobil1.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005169/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005169/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}