WILMINGTON, Del.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Inside Access from Chase, an exclusive events program for Chase cardmembers, received the inaugural “Best Credit Card Special Events” program award from Global Traveler’s 13th annual GT Tested Reader Survey Awards. The program offers eligible Chase cardmembers once in-a-lifetime experiences, such as celebrity meet-and-greets, private culinary, music and cultural events, and behind the-scenes previews to sports and fashion.
“Global Traveler’s readers not only reaffirmed how important it is to provide cardmembers with unforgettable experiences, but also see Inside Access as a go-to place for exploring more of their passions,” said David Gold, a general manager of Chase Card Services. “We are proud to receive the first award in this new category and will continue to bring ‘Inside Access’ and one-of-a-kind experiences to our cardmembers.”
The survey asked frequent business and luxury travelers to name the best programs in a variety of categories including special events, which was added for the first time this year.
To celebrate the award, Inside Access from Chase will host an “All-Stars” party by bringing back some of the most popular celebrities and experiences in one place. The event will take place on January 9, 2017 at City Winery in New York City and feature celebrity-hosted interactive sessions, a walk-around dinner, live music and other fun activities, including:
“Once again, Chase cardmembers can get up close and personal with Inside Access from Chase ‘All-Stars’ in a truly unique and experiential way,” Gold said. “All attendees will also go home with great mementos of the event, including a signed Joe Namath football and drum head from Max Weinberg.”
The Global Traveler awards also recognized several Chase credit cards, including: The Ritz-Carlton Rewards Credit Card for “Best Frequent-Stay Affinity Credit Card Redemptions,” the Marriott Rewards Credit Card for “Best Frequent-Stay Affinity Credit Card,” the United MileagePlus Club Credit Card for both “Best Credit Card” and “Best Credit Card Rewards Program,” and the United MileagePlus Explorer Credit Card for “Best Frequent-Flyer Affinity Credit Card.”
Eligible Chase cardmembers can purchase tickets for this celebratory event at $150 each by calling 1-888-7102856. A limited quantity of tickets will be available.
About Chase
Chase is the U.S. consumer and commercial banking business of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM), a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.5 trillion and operations worldwide. Chase serves nearly half of America’s households with a broad range of financial services, including personal banking, credit cards, mortgages, auto financing, investment advice, small business loans and payment processing. Customers can choose how and where they want to bank: 5,300 branches, 16,000 ATMs, mobile, online and by phone. For more information, go to Chase.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005947/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}