PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Jaunt Inc., the industry leader in cinematic virtual reality (VR), today announced the availability of its Jaunt VR app for Daydream. As a top VR content destination, the Jaunt app for Daydream puts the power of VR directly in the hands of enthusiasts and first-time viewers by taking advantage of the inherent capabilities of their smartphones. Jaunt’s entire catalog – including more than 150 high-quality and award-winning, immersive VR experiences spanning film, travel, music, sports and more – is available on all Daydream-ready phones starting today with Google’s Pixel phone and the Moto Z.
Daydream focuses on mobile VR and is fueling a reimagination of what immersive experiences on mobile phones should be. Daydream-ready devices are built specifically for VR with high-resolution displays, ultra-smooth graphics and high-fidelity sensors for precise head tracking. This superior level of quality with regards to the phones and platform, paired with the caliber of content Jaunt is known for, provides consumers with the most immersive, cinematic VR experience available today.
“Developing for Daydream was a no-brainer – we're big fans of Google's efforts to improve the mobile VR experience,” said Neal Poeppelmeier, product manager at Jaunt. “Jaunt’s app takes full advantage of the Daydream controller which tackles one of mobile VR's more significant issues: cumbersome gaze-based controls. Now, with the controller, you can relax, minimize excessive movement, and navigating in VR becomes as familiar and easy as navigating menus on TV. We’ve been looking forward to this launch and are eager to continue developing new, fun ways for Daydream users to further interact with Jaunt’s cinematic VR content.”
Jaunt’s end-to-end VR platform enables consumers and creators to focus on making and enjoying high-quality VR content across all devices and platforms. For consumers, they’ll have instant access to the full library of VR content on Jaunt. For creators, Jaunt seamlessly transcodes and distributes content across all devices ensuring content is available wherever their audiences are, including on Daydream.
The Jaunt VR app, including all content released to date, is available on Daydream, iOS, Android, Gear VR, Oculus Rift, HTC Vive and major desktop browsers.
About Jaunt Inc.
Jaunt is pioneering the future of creative storytelling through cinematic virtual reality. Founded in 2013, Jaunt is the leading developer of the hardware, software, tools, and applications to enable cinematic VR and put the power of virtual reality in the hands of today’s best content creators. Jaunt works with leading creatives – from brands to artists to filmmakers – to create cutting-edge content accessible across all devices and platforms. Headquartered in Palo Alto, California, the company also maintains a presence in Los Angeles, CA through its studio arm, Jaunt Studios; a European business office in London; and an engineering and development office in Amsterdam. In 2016, Jaunt established Shanghai-based Jaunt China, a VR company formed in partnership with Shanghai Media Group (SMG) and China Media Capital (CMC). Collectively, Jaunt produces branded and original VR content for audiences worldwide. Join @JauntVR on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.
Jaunt’s investors include The Walt Disney Company, Evolution Media Partners, China Media Capital, Highland Capital Partners, Google Ventures, Redpoint Ventures, Axel Springer, ProSiebenSat.1 SE, The Madison Square Garden Company, Peter Gotcher, Blake Krikorian, and Sky (corporate.sky.com). Experience more at www.jauntvr.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006476/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}