DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "High-Throughput Screening Market - Forecast to 2021" report to their offering.
Market growth can be attributed to the growing adoption of open innovative models in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry and technological advancements like automation and miniaturization, increasing R&D spending and rising government funding. Emerging markets and growing research activities in toxicology and stem cells provide significant growth opportunities for the market. On the other hand, the high cost and time-consuming nature of HTS techniques are restraining the growth of this market during the forecast period.
The global high-throughput screening market is segmented on the basis of product and service, technology, application end user and region. Based on product and service, the high-throughput screening market is segmented into consumables and reagents, instruments, & software and services. Based on technology, the high-throughput screening market is segmented into cell-based assays; lab-on-a-chip, ultra high-throughput screening market, label-free technology and bioinformatics. The cell-based assays segment is subsegmented into 2D cell culture, 3D cell culture and perfusion cell culture.
North America is the largest market for high-throughput screening, followed by Europe and Asia-Pacific. However, Asia-Pacific and Latin America possess lucrative growth potential for the high-throughput screening market during the forecast period. This is mainly attributed to the increasing R&D spending; growing trend of outsourcing drug discovery services; growing public-private partnerships; and increasing government funding.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1 Introduction
2 Research Methodology
3 Executive Summary
4 Premium Insights
5 Market Overview
6 Industry Insights
7 High-Throughput Screening Market, by Product & Service
8 High-Throughput Screening Market, by Technology
9 High-Throughput Screening Market, by Application
10 High-Throughput Screening Market, by End User
11 High-Throughput Screening Market, by Region
12 Competitive Landscape
13 Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/k93f2w/highthroughput

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005353/en/