ROWLETT, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
This year, for the first time, C.H. Robinson is recognizing six North American truckload contract carriers with the Key Carrier of the Year Award. Billy Reece is the recipient of the award in the owner-operator segment. Reece was nominated by his C.H. Robinson carrier representative for the new awards.
Reece, as well as the other owner-operators with Key status in the program, have exceptional service levels, have demonstrated efficiencies through automation and have established relationships with dedicated carrier representatives.
Reece was recognized due to the outstanding and consistent service he provides. “Billy has incredible name recognition with our shippers and receivers; which speaks volumes for what how he works with us and our customers,” said John Dyess, C.H. Robinson carrier account manager. “We couldn’t do what we do without carriers like Billy, who rises above and beyond when we face challenges.”
Reece is a flatbed owner-operator based in Rowlett, TX. “C.H. Robinson has my back when I need it the most,” said Reece. “Every time I call John and need to get something, he helps me get it done. We have a great relationship.”
C.H. Robinson’s Carrier Advantage Program supports its 68,000 contract carriers with a three-tier model. The program provides contract carriers earlier access to freight, a dedicated carrier representative, discounts on our Quick Pay program and the ability to submit offers via Navisphere Carrier, C.H. Robinson’s technology platform.
About C.H. RobinsonAt C.H. Robinson, we believe in accelerating global trade to seamlessly deliver the products and goods that drive the world’s economy. Using the strengths of our knowledgeable people, proven processes and global technology, we help our customers work smarter, not harder. As one of the world’s largest third-party logistics providers (3PL), we provide a broad portfolio of logistics services, fresh produce sourcing and Managed Services for more than 110,000 customers and 68,000 contract carriers through our integrated network of 280 offices and more than 13,000 employees. In addition, the company, our Foundation and our employees contribute millions of dollars annually to a variety of organizations. Headquartered in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, C.H. Robinson (CHRW) has been publicly traded on the NASDAQ since 1997. For more information, visit http://www.chrobinson.com or view our company video.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006326/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}