SANTA FE SPRINGS, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Phono Solar, a leading global provider of integrated solar solutions, today announced that the company has delivered 28MW DC of 315W 72-cell solar modules to Citizens Energy, a Boston, MA-based not-for-profit energy developer.
Phono Solar delivered 90,000 solar PV modules to Citizens Energy, owner and operator of the newly-commissioned site in Jenkins County, GA. Founded in 1979 by Joseph P. Kennedy II, Citizens Energy uses its for-profit subsidiaries to support charitable energy programs for low-income households.
“Phono Solar was delighted to partner with Citizens on this project, making it possible to provide years of clean energy and tax revenue for the local economy,” said Bob Onofrey, Vice President of Sales for Phono Solar.
Alpha Energy, a leading community scale wind and solar provider, supplied the general contracting work for the 28MW DC site, employing one-third of the workers from local unions.
“The appetite for solar in Georgia has been steadily increasing. With current local infrastructure, state incentives and interconnection availability, Georgia is an ideal candidate for truly impactful solar projects,” said Brian Morrissey, Managing Director of Citizens Energy. Georgia Power will be the site energy off-taker through a power purchase agreement.
The 28MW DC site in Jenkins County has now been commissioned and is producing power. Upon completion of the installation, Morrissey noted that “Phono Solar’s high efficiency product, schedule flexibility and logistical execution made them a reliable partner for a project of this size.”
About Phono Solar
Phono Solar is an international leader in the design, manufacturing and supply of integrated solar PV solutions. Since 2004, Phono Solar has developed innovative technology targeted towards the renewable energy industry, and now possesses a diversified portfolio of high-performance technologies designed for the micro-grid, residential and commercial solar PV markets. Through the development of an extensive international support network, Phono Solar provides reliable energy supply, management, savings and storage options to end-users. Phono Solar Technology Co., Ltd. was founded by SUMEC Group Corporation, a Member of the National Machinery Industry Corporation, SINOMACH. Visit our website at www.phonosolar.com.
About Citizens Solar
Citizens Solar is a division of Citizens Energy Corporation (www.citizensenergy.com), a Boston-based non-profit founded in 1979 by former Congressman Joseph P. Kennedy II. Under Kennedy’s leadership as chairman and president, Citizens Energy has compiled a 35-year history of channeling revenues from successful energy ventures to programs that help the poor. Citizens Solar is a major developer of utility-scale solar arrays that specializes in building solar farms on capped and closed landfills and other underused land parcels.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005410/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}