CONSHOHOCKEN, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Instem, a leading provider of IT solutions to the global life sciences market, announced it will be launching the Instem University, an online learning platform for its global customer base.
The Instem University is a sophisticated, easy to use, intuitive web based solution that is available on-demand whenever a client needs it. The platform meets the needs of all users, from super users through to those staff who may only use Instem solutions infrequently.
Instem’s entire approach for the project is based upon the single objective of making it easier for clients to use Instem software solutions so that users can better perform their jobs.
Offered through flexible and cost effective subscription plans, each of Instem’s core solution suites will have a dedicated online Academy within the Instem University environment, delivering targeted content for the end-user, based on their area of application.
“The introduction of Instem University and its dedicated Academies represents a further step in our efforts to become a value-added extension of our clients’ business, ensuring they receive the highest amount of value from our software solutions,” comments Gary Mitchell, VP Global Marketing.
The launch of the Instem University takes Instem’s educational services to the next level, delivering targeted learning, certifications, training records and more. It offers clients even more ways to become proficient on Instem solutions; facilitating increased efficiency and effectiveness and fostering a culture of continuous learning.
Provantis Academy First to Launch
Instem’s most widely deployed software suite, Provantis®, will be first to launch its new e-Learning initiative, and will be available to all of its users beginning in version 10.
To mark the launch of the Provantis Academy, Instem will be hosting two live Webcasts beginning on December 13th. These presentations will provide a guided tour of the online Academy and will be showcasing the specific benefits it will deliver to users.
Click Here to Register.
The Provantis Academy will provide a more effective, lower cost way for users to learn and retain information. The flexible subscription plans include direct, live access to Instem’s team of educational industry experts and on-demand support.
The interactive online courses have been developed by Instem’s Education Services experts and industry application specialists. Reviewed and tested by users, the courses contain self-paced, on-demand training exercises, user guides and support materials, as well as online tests to evaluate understanding.
“Instem University provides users with a personalized approach to learning, giving them access to the training they need anywhere, at any time. All of our Academy modules are self-paced and can be revisited as often as they are needed,” states Penny Stockley, Instem Product Director.
Special Introductory incentives are being offered during 2016 and into early 2017.
Instem plans to launch the ALPHADAS® Academy, a dedicated e-learning platform for users of its early phase clinical trial EDC system during January, with additional academies being introduced throughout 2017.
About Instem
Instem is a leading supplier of IT applications and services to the early development healthcare market delivering compelling solutions for data collection, analysis and regulatory submissions management. Instem solutions are in use by customers worldwide, meeting the rapidly expanding needs of life science and healthcare organizations for data-driven decision making leading to safer, more effective products.
Instem’s portfolio of software solutions and consulting services increases client productivity by enhancing product development processes, while offering the unique ability to generate new knowledge through the extraction and harmonization of actionable scientific information.
Instem supports over 500 clients through offices in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Japan, China and India.
For more information please visit www.instem.com
http://www.linkedin.com/company/instem/https://www.facebook.com/Instem.softwarehttps://twitter.com/Instemsoftware

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005675/en/