CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Nuveen, an operating division of TIAA Global Asset Management, today announced that the Nuveen Diversified Commodity Fund (NYSE MKT: CFD) and the Nuveen Long/Short Commodity Total Return Fund (NYSE MKT: CTF) declared regular monthly distributions.
The funds intend to make regular monthly distributions to shareholders based on past and projected performance. Among other factors, the funds seek to establish a distribution rate that roughly corresponds to projections by the fund’s manager, Nuveen Commodities Asset Management, of the total return that could reasonably be expected to be generated by the funds over an extended period of time. Investors should not draw any conclusions about a fund’s past or future investment performance from its current distribution rate. As market conditions and portfolio performance may change, the rate of distributions on the shares and the funds’ distribution policy could change.
Because each fund expects to be classified as a partnership for tax purposes, shareholders will be allocated their pro-rata share of the fund’s income, gains, losses, deductions and credits for purposes of computing their tax liability. Fund shareholders will receive a Schedule K-1 which reports their allocable portion of such tax items. An investment in the funds’ shares is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of the entire amount invested. The funds invest primarily in commodity futures contracts and options on commodity futures contracts, which have a high degree of price variability and are subject to rapid and substantial price changes. The funds could incur significant losses on commodity investments. The funds are commodity pools; they are not mutual funds, closed-end funds, or any other type of “investment company” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and are not subject to regulation thereunder.
This press release is not a solicitation to buy or sell fund shares. The funds do not presently offer any new shares for sale; existing shares trade on the NYSE MKT.
Nuveen Commodity Asset Management, LLC is the manager of the funds and is registered as a commodity pool operator with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Nuveen provides investment solutions designed to help secure the long-term goals of individual investors and the advisors who serve them. Through the investment expertise of leading asset managers across traditional and alternative asset classes, Nuveen is committed to delivering consultative guidance that aligns with client needs. Nuveen is an operating division of TIAA Global Asset Management. For more information, please visit the Nuveen website at www.nuveen.com.
21250-INV-O-11/17

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006516/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwalignr {text-align: right !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadb1 {padding-bottom: 2.0px !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}