NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has assigned an 'F1' rating to the following Nassau County, NY general obligation (GO) short-term debt:
--Approximately $50,000,000 tax anticipation notes (TANs), 2016 series A;
--Approximately $170,000,000 TANs 2016 series B;
--Approximately $40,000,000 TANs 2016 series C; and
--Approximately $99,000,000 Bond Anticipation Notes (BANs), 2016 Series D (Federally Taxable).
In addition, Fitch has affirmed the following ratings:
--Approximately $2.1 billion in outstanding GO bonds at 'A';
--Approximately $237 million in outstanding Nassau Health Care Corporation (NHCC) county-guaranteed bonds at 'A';
--Approximately $7.3 million in outstanding Nassau Regional Off-Track Betting Corporation (NROTBC) revenue bonds series 2005 at 'A-'; and
--The county's Issuer-Default Rating (IDR) at 'A'.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
The BANs and TANs are scheduled to be sold through negotiation on December 6 and December 15, respectively. TAN proceeds are issued in anticipation of the receipt of real property taxes in 2017. BAN proceeds will refinance outstanding BANs. The series A, B, and C TANs are due on March 31, Sept. 15, and Dec. 8, 2017, respectively. The BANs are due Dec. 15, 2017.
SECURITY
The notes carry the county's faith and credit and taxing power, subject to a 2011 state statute limiting property tax increases to the lesser of 2% or an inflation factor (the tax cap law). This limit can be overridden annually by a 60% vote of the county legislature.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The county's legal ability to raise revenues from a diverse and wealthy base and demonstrated ability to quickly reduce spending, in conjunction with a moderate liability burden, keep the rating solidly investment grade. However, aggressive budgeting practices and a policy choice to maintain minimal operating reserves are unusual for a Fitch-rated local government and keep the county's rating well below the 'AA' average for the sector.
Economic Resource Base
Nassau County is located just east of New York City, with a population of approximately 1.3 million that has remained steady since 2000. Growth prospects are limited as the county is built out, but there are modest re-development opportunities.
Revenue Framework: 'a' factor assessment
Dependence on sales and property taxes is expected to continue to yield modest revenue growth given limited prospects for economic expansion. The county has unlimited independent legal ability to control property tax rates, although property tax levy increases above the lower of CPI or 2% require a supermajority (60%) vote of the county legislature.
Expenditure Framework: 'a' factor assessment
Despite generous terms of labor contracts relative to historical revenue growth and management's limited ability to control the ultimate outcome of labor negotiations, the county has demonstrated an ability to reduce its workforce and other spending when needed and additional savings appear possible. Carrying costs for debt, pensions, and other post-employment benefits (OPEB) are sizable.
Long-Term Liability Burden: 'aa' factor assessment
Reported overall debt levels are understated as data on aggregate school district debt are not available. Fitch assumes overall debt levels are approximately double the reported level given that school districts generally contribute significantly to the debt burden on a typical municipal tax base. New York State pensions in which the county participates are well-funded but the OPEB liability is considerable and the county has taken minimal steps to control its growth.
Operating Performance: 'bbb' factor assessment
Fitch expects the county to continue to manage its performance consistent with historical results and throughout economic cycles - keeping minimal reserves, with a mix of recurring and non-recurring solutions involving staffing reductions, asset sales, and minor recurring revenue increases. The county has committed to discontinue the use of bond proceeds for operating costs. The presence of a control board whose approval is required for such borrowing reinforces this expectation.
Short-Term Ratings Mapped: The 'F1' ratings on the BANs and TANs are based on the long-term credit characteristics that result in the county's 'A' IDR.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
OPERATING MARGINS: The 'A' long-term ratings and Stable Outlook incorporate Fitch's expectation that the county's financial operations will continue to generate roughly break-even results and minimal reserves with reduced reliance on non-recurring items and deferrals as the economic recovery continues. Improved margins and the accumulation of a meaningful level of reserves during periods of economic recovery, along with the expected elimination of reliance on debt and other non-recurring items to fund recurring expenses, could result in rating improvement. Increased reliance on such funding or a trend of annual deficits of more than a minimal amount could result in a downgrade.
CREDIT PROFILE
Economic indicators show diversity and strength, including market value per capita of over $155,000, per capita personal income at 160% of the U.S., and a poverty rate of less than one-half the U.S. average. Top taxpayers include a mix of utilities, corporate facilities, and retail. The unemployment rate is consistently below state and national averages, although employment growth is generally slower than the national rate. The latter may be influenced by demographic trends, as the proportion of residents over age 64 exceeds the U.S. average.
Revenue Framework
The county's major operating funds (general and police district) rely heavily on sales tax revenues, whose growth over time reflects the county's slow economic growth. Small property tax revenue increases have been due to modest policy actions, as taxable assessed value continues to decline despite increases in market value.
Operating resources have included proceeds of bonds issued for employee termination pay (accumulated vacation and sick leave) and tax refunds. The county is responsible for paying refunds to taxpayers who successfully appeal their assessments for underlying jurisdictions, which creates an unusual burden for a local government. Officials have been working to reduce the financial impact of this arrangement.
Fitch anticipates that the impact will be further alleviated in 2017, when a new disputed assessment fund is implemented to handle commercial appeals. The fund will require commercial taxpayers who file appeals to deposit the amount of disputed taxes into a dedicated fund, reducing AV by the amount under appeal. Successful appeals are expected to be repaid from the fund, not from county resources.
Historical revenue growth has been slower than national CPI growth. Fitch expects this trend to remain consistent as the economy continues to mature.
New York State law requires property tax revenue increases be limited to the lesser of CPI or 2% annually, unless a supermajority of the local governing body vote for a larger increase. This exception provides substantial legal flexibility to raise revenues without state or voter approval. Any increase in the sales tax rate would require state approval, and maintenance of the existing local portion of the sales tax rate is subject to biennial state approval. Fitch considers such approval pro forma.
Expenditure Framework
Typical of local governments, public safety is one of the county's main spending items at almost 40% of the total. New York State requires counties to share in Medicaid spending, although the state now covers all annual spending increases. Health and social services spending equaled about 26% of spending in 2015, but this percentage has been declining given the state Medicaid cap.
The county generally agrees to long-term labor contracts for its employees that include fairly generous terms given slow revenue growth expectations. For example, current contracts extend from April 1, 2014 to Dec. 31, 2017 and call for cumulative cost of living increases of 12.75%. For the Civil Service Employees Association, which includes about one-half of county employees, 0.75% of the increases are deferred until termination at then-prevailing rates. With the current contracts, new employees pay a portion of health care premiums.
Fitch believes pressure to provide sizable salary increases even in downturns is tempered a bit by the Nassau Interim Finance Authority's (NIFA, the county's control board) ability to impose a wage freeze after 2017, as it did in 2011-2013. Law enforcement unions challenged this action, and salary increases in current labor contracts reflect a partial settlement of this challenge.
The pace of spending growth absent policy actions is likely to be modest given the slow-growth environment and limited needs of a relatively affluent population, although the natural pace of spending growth is still likely to be above that of revenues. The county is both deferring some pension costs and repaying prior deferrals that were authorized by the state. In the near term annual pension requirements should be fairly level. Over time they may increase, but the rolling off of deferral repayments should keep annual increases moderate for some time.
The collective bargaining framework in New York makes adjustments to personnel spending difficult, although as mentioned above NIFA's powers provide some level of offset. If the county is successful in eliminating bond issuance for tax refunds, and with the roll-off of NIFA debt in 2025, currently elevated carrying costs (21% of governmental spending in 2015) may decline as a portion of spending over time.
The county has about $316 million in outstanding tax refunds, as reported in the 2015 CAFR, which may need to be repaid with operating funds as NIFA appears unlikely to approve bonding for this purpose after 2017. This would add significantly to the governmental expenditure base ($3.6 billion in 2015), but if they were paid over time they would be more manageable. The county's pending litigation includes recent property tax refund claims that could reach $345 million and the remaining challenge to the wage freeze, for which retroactive payments are estimated at $101 million.
Long-Term Liability Burden
Nearly $1 billion of the county's $3.2 billion in outstanding net direct debt (GOs and NIFA revenue bonds) was issued for tax refunds. Debt issued by NIFA ($922 million, or 27% of the total), supported by sales tax revenues, is scheduled to be repaid by 2025. The combination of these two leads to rapid amortization. As the tax refund and NIFA debt is repaid and no further such debt is expected to be issued beyond 2017, amortization is likely to slow. Capital plans indicate new debt will approximate the amount amortizing each year. Debt figures for school districts within the county are unavailable, but Fitch believes overall debt and pension liabilities likely exceed 10% of personal income.
State pensions in which the county participates are well-funded and reform in 2012 should slow the growth in the liability over time. Pursuant to pension relief programs approved by the state, the county has deferred approximately $300 million in liabilities through 2017. These should all be repaid within 12 years. Additional deferrals should be modest and are scheduled by the state to be discontinued in 2020.
The OPEB liability is sizable at nearly 5% of personal income and the county has expressed no plans to reduce it.
About one-half of NIFA's debt and all of the county-guaranteed Nassau Health Care Corp (NHCC) debt is in variable rate demand bonds supported by letters of credit or liquidity facilities. Nearly all of the VRDBs are swapped to fixed rate, with a variety of counterparties. Fitch rates NIFA's debt 'AAA'/Stable Outlook and does not view this level of counterparty risk as significant to the county's credit quality.
Operating Performance
Despite minimal reserves, the county has demonstrated adequate financial resilience, with modest annual operating surpluses or deficits throughout economic cycles. Fitch expects this trend to continue. Budgeting is somewhat aggressive (for example revenue estimates sometimes include sources that have not yet received required state approval; sales tax revenues often under-perform budget) but shortfalls are addressed in a timely manner, albeit by a mix of recurring and non-recurring means.
The county's financial operations are fairly consistent, and use of non-recurring revenues and deferral of spending items do not appear to be related to the economic cycle. The county took advantage of state pension funding relief related to market losses, as did many other New York localities. Use of bond proceeds to repay tax refunds has been an annual exercise and has been declining over the last several years due to changes in assessment and appeal procedures rather than economic changes - appeals and required refunds are likely to rise during weak economic periods. Aggressive budgeting is also consistent.
Audited results for 2015 show a general fund surplus of about $55 million, resulting in an unrestricted fund balance of about 2% of spending, still modest but up from 1% at the end of 2014. The 2016 adopted general fund budget is 4% below the adopted 2015 budget, and includes a 3% decrease in sales tax revenues. Other operating funds are budgeted to grow slightly from 2015 spending levels. Year-to-date results for 2016 indicate slightly positive results on a budgetary basis, including a 1.9% sales tax revenue increase through the third quarter and spending below budget. Nevertheless Fitch believes that management action during the economic recovery of the last few years has yielded little in the way of financial cushion against the next downturn.
The county's proposed 2017 budget ($3 billion in major operating funds) is 3.2% higher than the 2016 adopted budget. Sales tax revenues are budgeted to increase 1.4%, which Fitch believes is realistic. NIFA has rejected the proposed budget because it believes $36 million of budgeted revenue from a tax amnesty program is uncertain. The county plans to resubmit the budget on December 5, replacing the revenue in question with a combination of a fee increase and spending cuts. Fitch assumes that NIFA will approve a balanced 2017 budget.
The county relies on short-term borrowing for a moderate portion of its liquidity needs, generally about 15% of operating fund spending. Going forward, management plans to reduce the total amount of cash flow borrowing and to fully repay all outstanding cash flow borrowing prior to issuing additional notes. In past years note maturities and new issuances have overlapped. This reduces Fitch's previous concern about dependence on external borrowing not just for operations but for short-term debt repayment. Fitch believes that cash flows will satisfactorily cover TAN principal on each of the three scheduled repayment dates.
NIFA's use of its oversight board powers is a credit positive. NIFA has rejected the county's budgets when it believed revenue estimates were optimistic or spending measures insufficient, as it has done for the 2017 budget. However, so far NIFA's ability to instill conservatism into the county's financial practices appears limited.
The county focuses on the property tax levy rather than the rate (the state cap is on the levy) and management is notably reluctant to increase the levy more than a marginal amount. This makes finances heavily reliant on sales tax performance. The county's willingness to cut spending has been sufficient in recent years, along with minor revenue increases, to offset sales tax volatility.
The county is exploring a public-private partnership for its sewer system. If successful, Fitch expects the impact to general government operations to be limited to the possible modest reduction in GO debt not currently subsidized by sewer operations.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
In addition to the sources of information identified in the applicable criteria specified below, this action was informed by information from Lumesis and InvestorTools.
Applicable Criteria
Rating U.S. Public Finance Short-Term Debt (pub. 17 Nov 2015)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/873508
U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015834
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015834
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161202005792/en/