CALABASAS HILLS, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Cheesecake Factory®, known for its extensive menu, generous portions and legendary desserts, today announced the opening of its newest restaurant in Tacoma, Wash.
With more than 250 menu selections including nearly 50 lower calorie SkinnyLicious® dishes and a new “Super” Foods section – handmade, in-house with fresh ingredients – and more than 50 signature cheesecakes and desserts, The Cheesecake Factory’s opening provides exciting new choices for shoppers and area residents.
Featuring imported limestone floors and custom wood columns, hand painted murals and modern lighting, the new restaurant includes the distinctive and contemporary décor that is as creative and imaginative as The Cheesecake Factory’s extensive menu.
The Cheesecake Factory of Tacoma is located at 4502 S. Steele Street, Suite 1300A, Tacoma, WA 98409. The restaurant opens at 11:30 a.m. Monday through Saturday, and at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday.
For more information about The Cheesecake Factory, please visit www.TheCheesecakeFactory.comFan us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/TheCheesecakeFactoryFollow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/cheesecakeFollow us on Instagram at www.instagram.com/cheesecakefactory
About The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated
The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated created the upscale casual dining segment in 1978 with the introduction of its namesake concept. The Company, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 208 full-service, casual dining restaurants throughout the U.S.A. and Puerto Rico, including 194 restaurants under The Cheesecake Factory® mark; 13 restaurants under the Grand Lux Cafe® mark; and one restaurant under the RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen® mark. Internationally, 13 The Cheesecake Factory® restaurants operate under licensing agreements. The Company’s bakery division operates two bakery production facilities, in Calabasas Hills, CA and Rocky Mount, NC, that produce quality cheesecakes and other baked products for its restaurants, international licensees and third-party bakery customers. In 2016, the Company was named to the FORTUNE Magazine “100 Best Companies to Work For®” list for the third consecutive year. To learn more about the Company, visit www.thecheesecakefactory.com.
FORTUNE and 100 Best Companies to Work For® are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are used under license. From FORTUNE Magazine, March 3, 2016 ©2016 Time Inc. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or services of, The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005063/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}