RYE, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Board of Trustees of The Gabelli Global Small and Mid Cap Value Trust (GGZ) (the “Fund”) declared a $0.05 per share cash distribution payable on December 29, 2016 to common shareholders of record on December 21, 2016.
All or part of the distribution may be treated as long-term capital gain or qualified dividend income (or a combination of both) for individuals, each subject to the maximum federal income tax rate, which is currently 20% in taxable accounts for individuals (or zero depending on an individual’s tax bracket). In addition, certain U.S. shareholders who are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds will be required to pay a 3.8% Medicare surcharge on their "net investment income", which includes dividends received from the Fund and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of shares of the Fund.
Based on the accounting records of the Fund currently available, each of the distributions paid to common shareholders in 2016 would include approximately 100% from net capital gains on a book basis and does not represent information for tax reporting purposes. The estimated components of each distribution are updated and provided to shareholders of record in a notice accompanying the distribution and are available on our website (www.gabelli.com). The final determination of the sources of all distributions in 2016 will be made after year end and can vary from the monthly estimates. Shareholders should not draw any conclusions about the Fund’s investment performance from the amount of the current distribution. All shareholders with taxable accounts will receive written notification regarding the components and tax treatment for all 2016 distributions in early 2017 via Form 1099-DIV.
Investors should carefully consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses of the Fund before investing. More information regarding this and other information about the Fund is available by calling 800-GABELLI (800-422-3554) or visiting www.gabelli.com.
The Gabelli Global Small and Mid Cap Value Trust is a diversified, closed-end management investment company with $129 million in total net assets whose primary investment objective is to achieve long-term capital growth of capital. Under normal market conditions, the Fund will invest at least 80% of its total assets in equity securities (such as common stock and preferred stock) of companies with small or medium sized market capitalizations. The Fund is managed by Gabelli Funds, LLC, a subsidiary of GAMCO Investors, Inc. (GBL).

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005701/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}