ASHLAND, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
OnProcess Technology, a global pioneer in service supply chain management and optimization, today announced it has won multiple ‘Best in Biz 2016’ awards. The company’s CEO, Mike Wooden, and its VP of Marketing, Candyce Plante, have been named bronze winner for the Exec of the Year and silver winner for Marketing Exec of the Year, respectively. Both Wooden and Plante joined OnProcess in 2015 to help the company expand market share and cement its reputation as the leading provider of managed services for complex, global post-sale supply chains.
“We’re thrilled to be recognized by Best in Biz for OnProcess’ achievements in business growth and marketing prowess,” said Wooden. “During the past year, OnProcess has reached a number of milestones that showcase the value of our innovative, analytics-based approach to supply chain services, and how it helps clients boost efficiencies, deliver superior end-customer experience and save millions of dollars every year.”
The sixth annual Best in Biz North America program garnered more than 600 entries from public and private companies of all sizes and across a variety of industries and geographic regions. Winners were determined based on scoring by an independent panel of 50 judges from widely known newspapers, business, consumer and technology publications, TV outlets and analyst firms.
“If companies are going to stand out from the crowd and remain competitive in future years, innovation is key,” said Charlie Osborne, ZDNet journalist and a Best in Biz Awards 2016 judge. “This year’s Best in Biz Awards entries highlighted not only innovative business practices but also the emergence of next-generation technologies that will keep companies current and relevant.”
For a full list of Best in Biz Awards 2016 winners, visit: http://www.bestinbizawards.com/2016-winners.
About OnProcess TechnologyOnProcess Technology is a managed services provider specializing in complex, global service supply chain operations – the flow of people, parts and services following the sale of a product. The company’s deep expertise, purpose-built technology delivery and embedded, analytics-based process improvement, enable clients to quickly optimize and scale operations, grow revenue and profitability, and deliver superior customer experiences. OnProcess provides services in 23 languages and operates in six global facilities, including its Massachusetts headquarters and facilities in Maine, Costa Rica, India and Bulgaria. www.onprocess.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005014/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}