PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Axalta Coating Systems (AXTA) is proud that its paints helped carry driving greats, MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS Formula OneTM Team Driver Nico Rosberg and Jimmie Johnson to victory at their recent championship season finale wins on the Formula OneTM and NASCAR circuits, respectively. Axalta’s innovative automotive coatings contribute to race car performance and aerodynamics, as well as maximize the visibility of both team and driver brands with colorful designs and effects.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006482/en/ 
“We congratulate Jimmie and Nico on their tremendous accomplishments this year,” said Axalta Chairman and CEO Charlie Shaver. “The tough environments of the racetrack are the ultimate test of the endurance and durability of our coatings. The technology that stands behind the coating performance we deliver on the track is found in Axalta coatings sold around the world for multiple vehicle and industrial applications.”
Rosberg, one of the MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS Formula OneTM Team drivers, clinched the 2016 FIA Formula OneTM World Drivers’ Championship1 in the last race of the season at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix in the United Arab Emirates on Sunday, November 27, 2016. As an Official Team Supplier, Spies Hecker®, one of the global refinish brands of Axalta, is responsible for the paint of the high-impact, instantly-recognizable livery on this season’s Silver Arrow – the Mercedes F1 W07 Hybrid car.
“It’s important, of course, that the race cars look great on the track and that logos of our partners are displayed clearly. What is also exceptionally critical for us is the weight of the paint, the speed of its application and the reliability of the entire system. And by that I mean, being used over and over again, all season, season after season, with the same great results. Spies Hecker delivers that for us. We don't have time to accept anything less than perfect,” says Andrew Moody, Head of Paint and Graphics, MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS Formula OneTM Team.
On the NASCAR circuit, Johnson’s historic seventh Sprint Cup Series championship was won in the No. 48 Lowe’s Chevrolet SS painted with Axalta’s brilliant coatings. From the beginning of Johnson’s journey at Hendrick Motorsports to becoming an iconic future NASCAR Hall of Fame driver, Axalta’s products have proven time and time again to withstand the tough conditions of NASCAR racing, and it was no different at Homestead-Miami Speedway on Nov. 20, 2016, when Johnson clinched the championship by winning the season’s final race.
Axalta’s logo is displayed prominently on the ‘B’ post of Johnson’s No. 48 car for every race of the season. As a partner and paint supplier to 12-time Cup champion Hendrick Motorsports for 24 years, including sponsorship of four-time Sprint Cup champion Jeff Gordon and 26 career victory winner Dale Earnhardt Jr., Axalta takes great pride in supporting Johnson’s victories. Johnson has proven to be a great ambassador for Axalta, and his passion for perfection helps drive the company to be a better partner through research and development of lighter, more durable and more brilliant coatings for his No. 48 race car.
“The people at Axalta have been tremendous partners of Hendrick Motorsports for many years, and we’re proud to use their paint on our race cars and equipment,” said Doug Duchardt, general manager of Hendrick Motorsports. “Incredible resources go into research and development for Axalta coatings, and the benefits are evident in our application with regard to both appearance and performance. We look forward to many more years of working together.”
About Axalta Coating Systems – Celebrating 150 Years in the Coatings Industry
Axalta is a leading global company focused solely on coatings and providing customers with innovative, colorful, beautiful and sustainable solutions. From light OEM vehicles, commercial vehicles and refinish applications to electric motors, buildings and pipelines, our coatings are designed to prevent corrosion, increase productivity and enable the materials we coat to last longer. With 150 years of experience in the coatings industry, the approximately 12,800 people of Axalta continue to find ways to serve our more than 100,000 customers in 130 countries better every day with the finest coatings, application systems and technology. For more information visit axaltacoatingsystems.com and follow us @Axalta on Twitter and on LinkedIn.
1 Subject to official confirmation by the FIA of the results of the 2016 FIA Formula OneTM World Championship

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006482/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006482/en/