LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
According to the latest market study released by Technavio, the global personal lubricant market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 7% during the forecast period.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005085/en/ 
This research report titled ‘Global Personal Lubricant Market 2016-2020’ provides an in-depth analysis of the market in terms of revenue and emerging market trends. This market research report also includes up to date analysis and forecasts for various market segments and all geographical regions.
Personal lubricants constitute one of the fastest-growing segments of the global sexual wellness market. There is a growing acceptance of using these products among consumers to enhance their sexual health and experience, and this is one of the major drivers of the market. This market space also boasts of a very high number of women entrepreneurs, which comes with an added bonus of providing more ease and comfort in transactions to the consumers.
This market segment has been growing at a steady pace since the global economic recession of 2008. The recession saw people spending more time indoors, which turned out to be a major driver for the sexual wellness industry. The increased social media initiatives to gain customer acceptance is bringing personal lubricants to the mainstream. The growing popularity of online retailers is expected to keep this market growth on an upward trend.
Request a sample report: http://www.technavio.com/request-a-sample?report=54745
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
Based on product type, the report categorizes the global personal lubricant market into the following segments:
Water-based personal lubricant
“Water-based personal lubricants have been available in the market for a long time. They are more familiar and popular than other lubricants. Water-based lubricants are condom compatible, which increases their acceptance value. They are increasingly demanded since they are easy to find, low-cost, and safe to use with latex condoms,” says Amber Chourasia, one of the lead analysts at Technavio for health and wellness research.
K-Y Liquid/Jelly, Astroglide, and Replens are some of the popular brands in the market. However, some of these lubricants may contain glycerine, propylene, or glycol parabens, which have the potential to cause irritation and infections. Also, the lubricants may require a reapplication during use. Although the market for water-based lubricants is growing, these drawbacks may pull down growth and reduce market share during the forecast period.
Silicone-based personal lubricant
“This type of personal lubricants constitutes the fastest growing segment of the market. Their moisturizing properties are demanded by an increasing number of women who experience vaginal dryness. They provide longer-lasting moisture than water-based lubricants and are a safer option too. They can also be used by postmenopausal women, breastfeeding women, or women experiencing vaginal dryness from birth control pill use,” says Amber.
Despite their advantages, this type of lubricants has their own set of drawbacks. They are stickier and messier than oil-based or water-based lubricants and are not compatible with silicone sex toys. Although they are safer when compared to water-based lubricants, silicone-based lubricants do not guarantee safety. To combat these drawbacks, vendors are continually trying to improve its properties to appeal to more woman. Silicone lubricants are available through various distribution channels, like online stores, drug stores, and grocery stores.
Oil-based personal lubricant
The oil-based lubricant mainly has its customers in developing countries like Brazil, China, and India. The current lubricants in this category are not compatible with latex condoms and renders them unsafe. Even though this type of lubricant is not very popular, the demand for these is set to improve in the forecast period due to the introduction of oil-based organic lubricants. These are free from petrochemicals and other allergens and are extremely safe. There will be a high demand for organic condoms from the Middle-East, thus driving this segment forward.
The top vendors highlighted by Technavio’s research analysts in this report are:
Browse Related Reports:
Do you need a report on a market in a specific geographical cluster or country but can’t find what you’re looking for? Don’t worry, Technavio also takes client requests. Please contact enquiry@technavio.com with your requirements and our analysts will be happy to create a customized report just for you.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. The company develops over 2000 pieces of research every year, covering more than 500 technologies across 80 countries. Technavio has about 300 analysts globally who specialize in customized consulting and business research assignments across the latest leading edge technologies.
Technavio analysts employ primary as well as secondary research techniques to ascertain the size and vendor landscape in a range of markets. Analysts obtain information using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches, besides using in-house market modeling tools and proprietary databases. They corroborate this data with the data obtained from various market participants and stakeholders across the value chain, including vendors, service providers, distributors, re-sellers, and end-users.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005085/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005085/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}