STOCKHOLM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
After a rigorous evaluation of request for proposals to upgrade the radiotherapy facilities and services at several major public hospitals throughout Greece, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF), with The Johns Hopkins Hospital, USA, as its scientific partner, has chosen Elekta (EKTA-B.ST).
In addition to supplying the hospitals with Elekta Infinity™ (https://www.elekta.com/infinity) linear accelerators, the hospitals will also acquire Elekta’s MOSAIQ® (https://www.elekta.com/mosaiq) oncology information system and Monaco® (https://www.elekta.com/monaco) treatment planning system as well as a comprehensive training program for radiotherapy techniques.
Francois Pointurier, Elekta’s Senior Vice President Region Europe, says: “Over 40 thousand people are diagnosed with cancer in Greece each year. SNF has made the best choice by selecting Elekta solutions to improve the quality of life of these cancer patients and make their treatment more effective. Infinity meets or exceeds the technical requirements set by SNF and Johns Hopkins.”
The cancer treatment solutions will be purchased through the SNF as part of its three-year initiative to contribute significantly to offering efficient, safe and comprehensive treatment of patients with cancer throughout the country.
Elekta Infinity is renowned as a comprehensive treatment system that combines superior dose conformance, and integrated image guidance with dramatically reduced treatment delivery time – to less than two minutes in some cases through highly conformal VMAT delivery.
About Elekta Elekta is a human care company pioneering significant innovations and clinical solutions for treating cancer and brain disorders. The company develops sophisticated, state-of-the-art tools and treatment planning systems for radiation therapy, radiosurgery and brachytherapy, as well as workflow enhancing software systems across the spectrum of cancer care. Stretching the boundaries of science and technology, providing intelligent and resource-efficient solutions that offer confidence to both health care providers and patients, Elekta aims to improve, prolong and even save patient lives.
Today, Elekta solutions in oncology and neurosurgery are used in over 6,000 hospitals worldwide. Elekta employs around 3,600 employees globally. The corporate headquarters is located in Stockholm, Sweden, and the company is listed on NASDAQ Stockholm. Website: www.elekta.com.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006444/en/