GONZALES, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Southwest Engineers, Inc., a full-service civil and environmental engineering consulting firm, today announced the City of Kenedy, Texas has joined the customer roster.
The City of Kenedy hired Southwest Engineers to assist in developing a plan to produce more arsenic-free water through its existing water treatment plant that currently accommodates the City’s growing water needs. In addition, the firm will select, design and oversee the installation of the appropriate equipment to add to the existing water treatment plant.
“Many communities are working on water treatment plants to ensure they comply with current environmental regulations as well as meet even more demanding water quality rules in the future. Using our extensive expertise in water treatment, Southwest Engineers will assist the City of Kenedy to select the most appropriate system to accommodate the city’s growing population,” said Clarence Littlefield, founder and vice president of Southwest Engineers.
Southwest Engineers has worked with the City for several decades. The City hired Southwest Engineers for their extensive knowledge in water treatment, as well as their ample expertise in selecting, designing and providing construction oversight for an appropriate arsenic removal system that will meet Texas Commission on Environmental Quality and Environmental Protection Agency guidelines.
About Southwest Engineers
Southwest Engineers is a full-service civil and environmental engineering consulting firm serving Texas with quality engineering services for 38 years. Their experienced team leads in the design of land development projects, water and wastewater infrastructure design and permitting throughout the state with smart, cost effective, future-focused design. For more information, visit www.swengineers.com.
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/southwest-engineers-inc-

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005185/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}