REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
MicroVision, Inc. (MVIS), a leader in innovative ultra-miniature projection display and sensing technology, today announced that it intends to offer to sell, subject to market and other conditions, shares of its common stock in an underwritten public offering. Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc., a subsidiary of Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. (NYSE MKT: LTS), will act as the sole underwriter for the offering. MicroVision also expects to grant the underwriter a 30-day option to purchase additional shares of common stock equal to up to 15 percent of the aggregate number of shares to be sold in the offering to cover over-allotments, if any. The offering is subject to market conditions, and there can be no assurance as to whether or when the offering may be completed, or as to the final size or terms of the offering. MicroVision intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes.
The securities described above are being offered by MicroVision pursuant to its registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-211869) previously filed and declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities in the offering, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. The offering may be made only by means of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus relating to the proposed offering, copies of which will be available on the SEC’s website located at http://www.sec.gov and may also be obtained, when available, from Ladenburg Thalmann at & Co. Inc., 570 Lexington Avenue, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10022, or by email at prospectus@ladenburg.com. Before you invest, you should read the preliminary prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus in the registration statement and other documents MicroVision has filed or will file with the SEC for more complete information about MicroVision and the offering.
About MicroVision
MicroVision is the creator of PicoP® scanning technology, an ultra-miniature laser projection and sensing solution based on the laser beam scanning methodology pioneered by the company. MicroVision’s platform approach for this advanced display and sensing solution means that it can be adapted to a wide array of applications and form factors. It is an advanced solution for a rapidly evolving, always-on world. Extensive research has led MicroVision to become an independently recognized leader in the development of intellectual property. MicroVision’s IP portfolio has been recognized by the Patent Board as a top 50 IP portfolio among global industrial companies and has been included in the Ocean Tomo 300 Patent Index. The company is based in Redmond, Wash.
For more information, visit the company’s website at www.microvision.com, on Facebook at www.facebook.com/MicroVisionInc or follow MicroVision on Twitter at @MicroVision.
MicroVision and PicoP are trademarks of MicroVision, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this release, including those relating to closing of the offering, and those statements using words such as “expects” and “intends” are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the company’s forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: our ability to successfully complete the offering on terms and conditions satisfactory to us; the possible adverse impact on the market price of our shares of common stock due to the dilutive effect of the securities to be sold in the offering; capital market risks; our ability to raise additional capital when needed; products incorporating our PicoP® scanning technology may not achieve market acceptance, commercial partners may not perform under agreements as anticipated, we may be unsuccessful in identifying parties interested in paying any amounts or amounts we deem desirable for the purchase of products or license of IP assets, our or our customers’ failure to perform under open purchase orders; our financial and technical resources relative to those of our competitors; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; government regulation of our technologies; our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary technologies; the ability to obtain additional contract awards; the timing of commercial product launches and delays in product development; the ability to achieve key technical milestones in key products; dependence on third parties to develop, manufacture, sell and market our products; potential product liability claims; and other risk factors identified from time to time in the company’s SEC reports, including the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Except as expressly required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in circumstances or any other reason.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006297/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}