NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Manifest LLC, a strategic creative agency with 250 full-time employees in five U.S. offices, is pleased to announce a management change designed to reenergize the leading providers of audience-centric creative in the advertising and marketing business today. Eric Goodstadt, former EVP, will become President, and David Barron, CFO, will add COO to his title.
“David and I came to Manifest to build something special and to create the next generation marketing/advertising agency,” says Eric Goodstadt, President of Manifest. “The traditional agency model is out of touch with the way today’s consumers interact with brands. We are dedicated to generating significant customer engagement through stellar content and superior experience design, reenergized and passionate employees, and an empowered staff in a culture of creativity and innovation.”
In July of 2015, Manifest Digital and McMurry/TMG combined to create Manifest. With brands striving to become closer to their customers in an era of tremendous distraction, Manifest was formed to help brands understand the needs and desires of their target audiences and develop strategies and tactics to best reach them by cutting through the clutter. The new management team is poised to revitalize the agency and return it to its core mission following declining revenues and staff attrition that resulted from mergers.
“We no longer see our goal as integrating cultures. Instead, we seek to enrich our single culture into one that encourages employee empowerment by rewarding creative passion and performance on behalf of our clients,” says Barron.
Eric Goodstadt, former EVP of Client Services-East, joined Manifest with more than 20 years of agency experience in retail, financial, restaurants, pharmaceuticals, B2C, and B2B. Prior to Manifest, Eric served as SVP Group Account Director at Publicis New York, where he worked with such brands as Red Lobster, Pfizer's Lipitor, NAPA Auto Parts, and Aflac Insurance.
As CFO of Manifest, David Barron, CPA, is building a unified financial, operational, and cultural platform. Prior to Manifest, David served as CFO at McMurry/TMG. Previously he worked in corporate finance at Time Warner and served as CFO for several agencies including Publicis New York. David began his career at Arthur Andersen.
“After 15 months, the merger is over and we are dedicated to moving the agency forward and to attract the best talent in the marketplace in an environment of transparency and trust,” Barron adds.
Manifest, brings a combined 45 years of traditional content/journalism skills and design/technology development, with offices in Chicago, IL; New York, NY; Washington, D.C.; St Louis, MO; and Phoenix, AZ. On the web at www.manifest.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006060/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}