DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Military GPS Device Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The report forecasts the global military GPS device market to grow at a CAGR of 3.69% during the period 2016-2020.
The report has been prepared based on an in-depth market analysis with inputs from industry experts. It covers the market landscape and its growth prospects over the coming years. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
The use of GPS technology has revolutionized modern warfare. Military forces are highly dependent on satellite technology for accurate positioning, timing, and communications. However, these GPS signals that are received by both military and civilians are weak and extremely susceptible to atmospheric interference and intentional jamming.
According to the report, with transforming war strategies, several countries are largely developing or procuring unmanned vehicles to be deployed in war zones. These vehicles not only augment a country's combat capabilities but also substitute a soldier's direct involvement in a battleground, thus cutting down on casualties. These unmanned vehicles are designed to perform daily as well as specialized tasks with high levels of efficiency and precision. They can withstand hazardous chemicals and dangerous situations that can potentially harm or threaten the life of soldiers.
Key vendors:
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by application
Part 07: Geographical segmentation
Part 08: Market drivers
Part 09: Market challenges
Part 10: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 11: Market trends
Part 12: Vendor landscape
Part 13: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/sb348f/global_military

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005726/en/