CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Link to Fitch Ratings' Report: DPR-CR Limited
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/890707
Fitch Ratings expects to rate the $250 million (max.) series 2016 notes to be issued by DPR-CR Limited 'BBB(EXP)' with a Stable Outlook. A full list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
The future flow program will be backed by U.S. dollar-denominated existing and future diversified payment rights (DPRs) originated by Banco Davivienda (Costa Rica), S.A. (Dav-CR). The majority of DPRs are processed by designated depository banks (DDBs) that will execute acknowledgement agreements (AAs), irrevocably obligating them to make payments to an account controlled by the transaction trustee. Fitch's ratings address timely payment of interest and principal on a quarterly basis.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Originator Credit Quality: Fitch rates Dav-CR's Local Currency (LC) Issuer Default Rating (IDR) 'BBB' with a Negative Outlook. The ratings assigned to Dav-CR are driven by the support the bank would receive from its Colombian parent, Banco Davivienda ('BBB'/Outlook Negative), if necessary. Dav-CR has a Viability Rating (VR) of 'bb-'. Fitch assigns a going concern assessment (GCA) score of 'GC2' to Dav-CR.
Parental Support Limits Uplift: The GCA score serves as a rating cap on the future flow transaction, but Fitch tempers notching uplift for future flow transactions originated by sponsors with support-driven ratings and for highly-rated originators. The transaction is rated four notches above the bank's VR, which measures Dav-CR's stand-alone credit risk.
Moderately Large Program Size: The proposed future flow issuance would represent approximately 9.8% of the bank's total liabilities and 26% of non-deposit funding. While Fitch considers these ratios small enough to differentiate the credit quality of the financial future flow transaction from the originator's LC IDR, the future flow debt size is a constraint on the transaction ratings.
Adequate Debt Service Coverage: Fitch expects base case quarterly debt service coverage ratios (DSCRs) to be approximately 20.7x. This calculation considers average quarterly rolling DPR flows during the last 12 months and the maximum quarterly debt service stressed according to Fitch's 'B'-level interest rate stress. The expected DSCR is low relative to coverage levels observed in other DPR programs and is a constraint on the future flow ratings.
Sovereign/Diversion Risks Reduced: The contemplated structure mitigates certain sovereign risks by keeping cash flows offshore until scheduled debt service is paid to investors, allowing the transaction to be rated above Costa Rica's country ceiling (CC). Fitch believes diversion risk is partially mitigated by the AAs to be signed by DDBs.
Sovereign Environment: Costa Rica's 'BB+' rating is underpinned by its strong structural features in terms of high per capita income, social development indicators and governance standards, as well as the continued success of its economic model. The Negative Outlook reflects the deteriorating public debt dynamics driven by large fiscal deficits and continued legislative gridlock. The CC is one notch above the Long-Term Foreign Currency IDR, underpinned by Costa Rica's commitment to the free flow of capital and international trade.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The credit strength of the transaction is linked to the performance of Dav-CR. The future flow ratings are sensitive to changes in the credit quality of Dav-CR, the ability of the DPR business line to continue operating (as reflected by the GCA score), changes in the ratings assigned to Costa Rica, and the performance of the DPR program. While the DPR ratings are sensitive to a downgrade of the bank's stand-alone credit quality, a one-notch downgrade of the bank's IDRs may not trigger a downgrade to the future flow ratings. Severe reductions in coverage levels or an increase in the level of future flow debt as a percentage of the bank's liabilities could result in rating downgrades.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10
Form ABS Due Diligence-15E was not provided to, or reviewed by, Fitch in relation to this rating action.
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMS
A description of the transaction's representations, warranties and enforcement mechanisms (RW&Es) that are disclosed in the offering document and which relate to the underlying asset pool was not prepared for this transaction. Offering documents for future flow transactions do not typically include RW&Es that are available to investors and that relate to the asset pool underlying the security. Therefore, Fitch credit reports for future flow transactions will not typically include descriptions of RW&Es. For further information, please see Fitch's Special Report titled 'Representations, Warranties and Enforcement Mechanisms in Global Structured Finance Transactions,' dated May 31, 2016.
Fitch has assigned the following ratings:
--$100,000,000 series 2016-1 notes 'BBB(EXP)'; Outlook Stable;
--$150,000,000 series 2016-2 notes 'BBB(EXP)'; Outlook Stable.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Interest Rate Stresses in Structured Finance Transactions and Covered Bonds (pub. 26 Oct 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/888492
Future Flow Securitization Rating Criteria (pub. 14 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/887175
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015710
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015710
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006536/en/