NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Humanscale is proud to announce a partnership with Thrive Global, Arianna Huffington’s new and groundbreaking venture. Thrive Global takes an integrated approach to ending the epidemic of stress and burnout, with three interconnected core elements that include: corporate trainings with leading partners; a media platform designed to be the global hub for the conversation about well-being and productivity; and an e-commerce platform that offers top technology and well-being products. “We are a company deeply rooted in science and dedicated to helping people go from knowing what to do to bring more well-being into their lives to actually doing it,” says Huffington. “I am so excited about the amazing collection of products, services and technologies we’re featuring at Thrive Global that will help people improve their well-being and productivity and lead healthier and more joyful lives.” Humanscale and Thrive Global will work together on new initiatives to advance wellness at work in 2017, starting with Humanscale’s participation in Thrive Global’s pop-up shop in New York City.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006155/en/ 
Well-being has been at the core of Humanscale’s principles from the beginning and continues today as the company strives to make a net positive impact on their customers and the environment. Founder and CEO Robert King started Humanscale in 1983 with an emphasis on designing functional, lasting ergonomic products that were easy to use and promote a healthy work environment. From seating to sit/stand solutions, designs based in ergonomics and human factors remain the driving force behind everything Humanscale creates. Humanscale’s work in this area complements Thrive Global’s mission to end the stress and burnout epidemic. In addition to looking at physical workstations, Thrive Global will factor in sleep, nutrition, stress and other contributing factors that impact health.
To launch the partnership, Humanscale’s workplace well-being solutions will be on display at the Thrive Global store, located in a 5,000 square-foot loft in New York City, that will offer live demonstrations, education, and trials of the latest products and technologies from December 1 through January 15, 2017. Three complete, active ergonomic workstations from Humanscale will be set up in the space, and visitors will be able to purchase items on site. The Thrive Global pop-up shop will be the first in a series of planned collaborations from the two companies. Visit www.thriveglobal.com to see more on Humanscale’s partnership with Thrive Global.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006155/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006155/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}