DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (THC) and UnitedHealthcare (UNH) have renewed their national relationship for four years, ensuring all UnitedHealthcare commercial and Medicare Advantage plan participants have continued in-network access to Tenet’s hospitals, outpatient centers and employed physicians across the country.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161202005769/en/ 
“We are pleased to complete this agreement ahead of schedule, allowing for continued, uninterrupted access for patients with UnitedHealthcare’s commercial and Medicare Advantage plans,” said Clint Hailey, chief managed care officer for Tenet. “UnitedHealthcare is one of the nation’s leading providers of health benefit plans, and we look forward to working together to improve the health and wellness of the communities we serve.”
The new agreement will go into effect on August 1, 2017, and includes a value-based care component, which rewards Tenet providers for achieving certain measures related to quality and efficiency.
“Our mutual commitment to this long-term relationship illustrates our shared focus on supporting people’s healthcare needs,” said Dan Rosenthal, president of UnitedHealthcare Networks. “Tenet’s national presence ensures UnitedHealthcare plan participants have convenient, local access to quality, cost-effective care, and we appreciate their support for placing greater emphasis on value-based programs.”
About Tenet Healthcare
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a diversified healthcare services company with 130,000 employees united around a common mission: to help people live happier, healthier lives. Through its subsidiaries, partnerships and joint ventures, including United Surgical Partners International, the company operates 79 general acute care hospitals, 20 short-stay surgical hospitals and approximately 470 outpatient centers in the United States, as well as nine facilities in the United Kingdom. Tenet’s Conifer Health Solutions subsidiary provides technology-enabled performance improvement and health management solutions to hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, physician groups, self-insured organizations and health plans. For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
The terms "THC," "Tenet Healthcare Corporation," "the company," "we," "us" or "our" refer to Tenet Healthcare Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries or affiliates as applicable.
About UnitedHealthcare
UnitedHealthcare is dedicated to helping people nationwide live healthier lives by simplifying the health care experience, meeting consumer health and wellness needs, and sustaining trusted relationships with care providers. The company offers the full spectrum of health benefit programs for individuals, employers, military service members, retirees and their families, and Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, and contracts directly with more than 1 million physicians and care professionals, and 6,000 hospitals and other care facilities nationwide. UnitedHealthcare is one of the businesses of UnitedHealth Group (UNH), a diversified Fortune 50 health and well-being company. For more information, visit UnitedHealthcare at www.uhc.com or follow @myUHC on Twitter.
Tenet uses its company website to provide important information to investors about the Company including the posting of important announcements regarding financial performance and corporate developments

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161202005769/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161202005769/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}