SUMMERVILLE, S.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
SCRA’s SC Launch program today announced investments in three South Carolina companies. VRM Labs, APP Squared and Tradeversity received funding ranging from $100,000 to $200,000. The SC Launch program is SCRA’s entrepreneurial platform that provides mentoring, grants and investments to qualified, South Carolina companies in the Advanced Materials/Manufacturing, Information Technology and/or Life Sciences industries.
APP Squared LLC’s technology, Snapp, is a mobile computing platform that enables Advanced Practice Providers to easily and accurately document their clinical work. Whether Providers are documenting patient encounters, administrative tasks or compliance details, Snapp provides an effective, real-time solution. The technology is based on research conducted at the Medical University of South Carolina. Snapp received a $200,000 investment from SC Launch that will be used to further research and development and begin initial sales.
Tradeversity is an online marketplace for college students that allows them to buy, rent and sell products and services exclusively within their local community. The University of South Carolina-born platform boasts a current campus base of 20 universities and accounts created at over 200 schools across the country. Tradeversity has been approved for a $100,000 investment to help further the growth of their company.
VRM Labs owns a technology for production of new natural antioxidant, called Prot-X, that is a cost-effective substitute for synthetic preservatives used in pet food. The natural antioxidant has been proven to safely increase the shelf life of pet and animal feed. VRM Labs is a spin-off from Clemson University and has received several grants for their research. The $200,000 investment from SC Launch will be used to scale their manufacturing process, gain regulatory approval and begin pilot sales.
“APP Squared, Tradeversity and VRM Labs are wonderful representatives of the amazing research and entrepreneurial activities being conducted at our academic institutions. We are proud to support their growth,” said Bob Quinn, Executive Director of SCRA.
About SCRAhttp://www.scra.org/
Chartered in 1983 by the state of South Carolina, SCRA foster South Carolina's Innovation Economy. SCRA improves the development and growth of South Carolina's innovation ecosystem by supporting entrepreneurs, enabling academic research and commercialization and connecting industry to innovators.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005939/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}