NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the following ratings on the city of Coopersville, MI:
--$1.1 million limited tax general obligation (LTGO) bonds, series 2006 at 'AA-';
--Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'AA-'.
The Rating Outlook is Stable. Fitch has simultaneously withdrawn the ratings as they are no longer considered to be relevant to the agency's coverage.
SECURITY
The LTGO bonds are backed by the city's full faith and credit and a limited ad valorem tax subject to applicable constitutional, statutory and charter limitations.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The 'AA-' rating reflects that the city has substantial control over revenues and spending and Fitch's expectations of slow growth. The city has a moderate long-term liability burden. Fitch believes that the city's ample reserves would remain very strong in a moderate economic downturn scenario.
Economic Resource Base
With a population of about 4,300, the city of Coopersville is located in Ottawa County (rated 'AAA' by Fitch) approximately 15 miles outside of Grand Rapids.
Revenue Framework: 'a' factor assessment
Fitch expects the city's revenue to grow at a rate in line with inflation. The city has substantial independent legal ability to raise revenue.
Expenditure Framework: 'aa' factor assessment
Fitch believes that the city's expenditures should grow at a rate slightly above revenue growth, requiring ongoing budget management. Flexibility is supported by moderate carrying costs for debt and other long-term liabilities.
Long-Term Liability Burden: 'aa' factor assessment
The city's long-term liability burden, including pension liabilities and overall debt, is low relative to personal income.
Operating Performance: 'aaa' factor assessment
The city has exceptionally strong gap closing capacity to manage through an economic downturn.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Revenue Expectations: The 'AA-' ratings are sensitive to any material change in Fitch's expectation for revenue growth, which is currently in line with inflation.
CREDIT PROFILE
Residents benefit from employment opportunities both within the city and throughout the Grand Rapids metropolitan area. City unemployment rates have improved significantly to below state and national levels, as the city is benefitting from several new large local development projects. The city expects assessed values to grow 10% in FY 2016 from the construction of a new milk-drying plant by Continental Dairy Facilities, LLC.
Revenue Framework
The city is largely reliant on property tax receipts, which comprised 65% of fiscal year (FY) 2015 general fund revenue. State shared revenue accounted for 17%. Charges for services (9%) and other revenue sources made up the remainder.
Prospects for natural revenue growth are slow. Fitch believes that future revenue growth is likely to be in line with CPI, but below GDP growth, particularly as increases are limited to CPI under the Headlee Amendment (with exceptions for new construction). Growth is expected to be above the compound annual growth rate of the last 10 years, which was negatively affected when the city's largest taxpayer filed bankruptcy in 2007. Since then, the city has added two large taxpayers: the aforementioned milk-drying facility and Fairlife LLC, a partnership between Select Milk Producers LLC and The Coca-Cola Company. The city projects FY 2016 revenue to increase by 10%, the majority of which is not subject to the Headlee Amendment limitation as it is exempt as new construction, before reverting to inflationary growth in subsequent years.
The city has substantial ability to legally raise revenue independently. While the city is constrained by state-imposed property tax limitations under the Headlee Amendment, it maintains the ability to increase the property tax rate by 3.6 mills to approximately $515,000, or 18% of total general fund revenue.
Expenditure Framework
The city's expenditures are largely driven by public safety (approximately 40% of FY 2015 general fund expenditures) and general governmental administration (around 25%). The remainder is comprised of public works, culture and recreational spending, and other expenditures.
Fitch expects that natural spending growth will be slightly above the slow natural revenue growth. The city no longer has any unions, which has reduced the contractual obligations that drive labor force increases in other jurisdictions. Fitch believes that the city will still be pressured to increase salaries at a rate approximating inflation to retain employees.
The city maintains ample flexibility of its main expenditure items. The city's carrying costs are approximately 8% of governmental expenditures and management maintains strong control over managing headcount.
Long-Term Liability Burden
The city's long-term liability burden is low, with debt and pension liabilities at approximately 15% of personal income. The majority of the city's liability burden is comprised of overlapping debt of the school district and several other entities (approximately 89% of the city's FY 2016 liability burden). The city does not have debt plans in the near future.
The city participates in the Municipal Employees' Retirement System of Michigan (MERS), which is an agent multiple-employer defined benefit pension system. Fitch calculates the ratio of assets to liabilities to be 63% assuming a 7% discount rate.
Operating Performance
The city has maintained a substantial available fund balance throughout the great recession and subsequent recovery relative to potential revenue declines depicted by the Fitch Analytical Sensitivity Tool (FAST) in a moderate economic downturn. Fitch expects that available general fund reserves (58% of expenditures in FY 2016) will remain above the 'aaa' reserve safety margin, even in a moderate unaddressed recessionary period, given the county's high degree of inherent budget flexibility. Fitch also notes that the high revenue volatility depicted by FAST may be overstated as it incorporates revenue declines caused by the bankruptcy of the city's top taxpayer in 2007.
The city has made consistent efforts to maintain a high level of financial flexibility in the current period of economic growth, exhibiting prudent fiscal management given the taxpayer concentration that introduces some risk to revenue declines. Management had a general fund surplus of $128,889 in FY 2016 and expects balanced operations in FY 2017. The city does not have a formal fund balance policy, but has an informal target of between 45% and 50%.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
In addition to the sources of information identified in Fitch's applicable criteria specified below, this action was informed by information from Lumesis and InvestorTools.
Applicable Criteria
U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016062
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016062
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006328/en/