SAN MATEO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Employers traditionally host events at this time of the year to celebrate the holidays and thank employees for jobs well done, but many employers are not aware of the liability risks associated with events that include alcohol.
“If alcohol is consumed in excess and judgment is impaired, employees and guests may then be vulnerable to a variety of improprieties and even violations of law,” said Emily Franchi, loss prevention specialist for employment practices with CAMICO (www.camico.com), the nation’s largest CPA-directed program of insurance and risk management for the accounting profession.
“Driving under the influence, sexual harassment, slander and defamation are just some of risk exposures to employees, employers and others,” said Franchi. “The good news is that there are practical steps and safeguards employers can take to help minimize exposures and ensure that guests are safe.”
Examples of safeguards include limiting the number of drinks through the use of drink tickets, and allowing a two- to three-hour window for serving drinks after the beginning of the event. Employers can also host a driving service that will shuttle employees to and from the event, or an on-call service for employees who are unsafe to drive.
“Whether work-related events are held onsite, offsite, or after-hours, expectations should be clearly communicated to all employees and managers that professional and sound judgment needs to be demonstrated during and after the celebration—the same standards used in the workplace,” said Franchi.
Business Owners Package policies can also help protect businesses from losses resulting from holiday and other events. Employment Practices Liability insurance helps protect against allegations such as harassment, discrimination and retaliation. For more information regarding risk management and insurance solutions to help protect CPA firms, visit www.camico.com.
About CAMICO
CAMICO delivers insurance, risk management and related services to more than 8,200 CPA firms and 50,000 staff members in 45 states and the District of Columbia. Founded in 1986, CAMICO is celebrating 30 years of providing solutions and is endorsed by state CPA societies and associations in Arizona, California, Colorado, Greater Washington D.C., Indiana, Kansas, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia and Washington. CAMICO provides Professional Liability Insurance, Employment Practices Liability Insurance, Business Owners Package, Workers’ Compensation, Personal Umbrella and other insurance products needed by CPA firms.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006087/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}