PREŠOV, Slovakia--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Leyard, a global leader in visualization products, today announced that Marco Bruines has joined as CEO of Leyard Europe, as part of Leyard’s international business.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005855/en/ 
Bruines served as the President of BarcoLeyard, the joint-venture between Leyard and Barco in China and has held executive roles in Europe at Barco, Inter Visual Systems, and most recently served as the managing director of SIGHT, a system integrator in the Benelux area focused on broadcasting and the corporate market.
“We are pleased to bring Marco’s deep customer knowledge and industry experience in displays to our EMEA business,” said Zach Zhang, chairman of Leyard International. “In his role, Marco will lead the sales, marketing, support, and operations in the region which will utilize his experience in segments ranging from sports and digital out-of-home media to broadcast, corporate, and control room applications.”
Marco Bruines added, “During the previous years working with Leyard, I have always been impressed by the professional organization and strong customer relationships. Moreover, with the broad and high-quality Leyard and Planar product portfolio, we can provide exceptional solutions for our growing markets.”
This announcement follows the earlier news of Leyard’s plans to open a new factory in Prešov, Slovakia in the European Union and numerous successful Leyard installations across Europe, including an impressive installation at European headquarters of the United Nations, television studios for RTL Group, and projects for Gucci and BMW.
Leyard, named the market leader in narrow pixel pitch LED video walls by FutureSource Consulting, delivers a broad range of fine pitch LED video wall solutions including the recently launched and award-winning Leyard® TWA Series, the Leyard® TVH Series, and the Leyard® DirectLight™ LED Video Wall System. The company’s line-up also includes award-winning LCD displays including the Clarity® Matrix® LCD Video Wall System, 4K LCD displays including the Planar® UltraRes™ Series, and Planar® EP Series, as well as interactive touch solutions.
About Leyard
Leyard Optoelectronic Co., Ltd. is a global leader in the design, production, distribution, and service of digital displays, video walls, and visualization products worldwide. Leyard has gained significant market share in fine pitch LED and offers indoor, outdoor, fixed, and creative displays, as well as other ancillary and lighting solutions for the urban environment. Used in various applications, such as broadcast, sports arenas, stadiums, advertisement networks, retail digital signage, control rooms, exhibitions, large scale events, and digital cultural experiences, Leyard enjoys marquee installations globally. Leyard was founded in 1995, is headquartered in Beijing, China, and is traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (stock code: 300296). Forbes magazine (2013) named Leyard among “China’s Top 100 Most Potential Listed Companies.” Planar Systems was acquired by Leyard in 2015. For more information, visit www.leyard.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005855/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005855/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}