DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Mining Outlook 2017: Riding Out the Bottom" report to their offering.
While 2017 is set to open with metal prices at significantly higher levels than a year earlier, persistent uncertainty around global economic growth is keeping mining companies in wait-and-see mode, meaning few major investment decisions and little cash available for junior exploration. Prices are not expected to rise much in 2017, but there is a hope that they will consolidate, forming a basis for the beginning of the end of the mining industry's spending freeze.
The Mining Intelligence Series Outlook 2017 consolidates facts, figures and qualitative analysis focusing on the principal mining markets of Latin America and the overall trends impacting mining activity in 2017, including economic growth, metal prices, productivity, debt management and spending.
Prices are not expected to rise much in 2017, but there is a hope that they will consolidate, forming a basis for the beginning of the end of the mining industry's spending freeze.
Analysis of the socio-political investment climate and details of the main projects where spending will occur in 2017 make this report essential for operators, providers, government entities and financial institutions active in or seeking to enter Latin America's mining industry.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Introduction: Market Conditions for Mining Investment to Remain Subdued
2. Argentina: Consolidating Policy Across the Provinces
3. Brazil: New Government Brings Hope but Iron Ore Price Relief Unlikely
4. Chile: Poster Child for the Push to Productivity
5. Colombia: Power To the People
6. Mexico: Economic Growth Struggles but Mining Project Approvals Signal Optimism
7. Peru: Social License Still the Main In-Country Challenge
8. In Brief: Guatemala, Panama, Ecuador, DR, Venezuela and Bolivia
9. Conclusion
Companies Mentioned
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/xv6cgt/mining_outlook

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005482/en/