FLINT, Mich.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Michael P. Lacusta has been appointed vice president of business development for McLaren Health Care effective Nov. 14, 2016.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006461/en/ 
“Michael’s breadth of successful leadership in the health care industry has spanned large, integrated academic health systems, physician management service organizations and stand-alone hospitals,” said Philip Incarnati, president and CEO, McLaren Health Care. “His expertise will guide McLaren as it expands within and beyond Michigan’s borders.”
Responsibilities for the newly created position include identifying and developing business opportunities for McLaren, as well as advising on existing programs and initiatives.
Lacusta has more than 35 years of experience in health care operations, physician group management, finance and health care consulting.
Lacusta was employed at Detroit Medical Center for more than 20 years in senior management positions and last served as executive vice president – chief business development officer. He also has served as president of University Physician Services Inc., a predecessor of Wayne State University Physician Group. Additionally, he has worked for multiple health care organizations as coordinating services partner and in senior management for the consulting firms of Ernst & Young, Cap Gemini, AlixPartners and Ernst & Whinney/Touche Ross.
“McLaren's strong market position and focus on quality outcomes and physician alignment represent a tremendous foundation on which to continue building the McLaren Health Care brand,” Lacusta said. “I'm excited to join the team to support the business development and growth initiatives at McLaren.”
Lacusta, 57, is a native of East Detroit and resides in Troy. A member of the American College of Healthcare Executives, he earned an MBA at Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and a Bachelor of Science in industrial and operations engineering at the University of Michigan.
About McLaren Health Care
McLaren Health Care, headquartered in Flint, Michigan, is a fully integrated health network committed to quality evidence-based patient care and cost efficiency. The McLaren system includes 12 hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, imaging centers, an employed primary care physician network, commercial and Medicaid HMOs covering more than 250,000 lives, home health and hospice providers, retail medical equipment showrooms, pharmacy services, and a wholly owned medical malpractice insurance company. McLaren operates Michigan’s largest network of cancer centers and providers, anchored by the Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute, one of only 47 National Cancer Institute-designated comprehensive centers in the U.S. McLaren has 22,000 employees and more than 40,000 network providers. Its operations are housed in more than 350 facilities serving the entire Lower Peninsula of the state of Michigan along with a portion of the Upper Peninsula. Learn more at mclaren.org.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006461/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006461/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}