MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
No longer just a river of dreams, Forbes in an article published by Peter Lane Taylor on December 9, titled “Why are the World’s Top Developers Risking Billions on the Miami River?” reports on the renaissance taking place along the banks of the once blighted Miami River.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005743/en/ 
Forbes chronicles how the once gritty river, which flows through the heart of Downtown Miami, is undergoing a sea change thanks to a wave of development by prominent developers like KAR Properties, Swire, Related Companies and Chetrit and through the thoughtful planning by the Miami River Commission. A handful of the restaurants have opened along the way include Zuma, Wolfgang’s, Cipriani, and Seaspice. Just across the River’s bridge, a new Saks Fifth Avenue caters to luxury shoppers.
The story spotlights One River Point developer Shahab Karmely and his bold bet on the Miami River. Karmely has invested over $150 million throughout Miami so far.
Karmely is developing the exclusive pair of riverfront towers being designed by Rafael Viñoly, the celebrated architect behind the tallest building in the Western Hemisphere, 432 Park Avenue.
Douglas Elliman Development Marketing is leading sales efforts for the signature development. Jay Parker, CEO Florida Brokerage, Douglas Elliman said, “Shahab Karmely and KAR Properties helped Douglas Elliman and our Florida leadership understand the viability of the redevelopment opportunity associated with the river, and while there are several projects being developed along the river, One River Point uniquely distinguishes itself by offering a level of quality, sophistication, security and accessibility in a way that few other riverfront properties will be able to compete with.”
Set on 1.8 acres on the Miami River within Downtown’s only private gated park, One River Point will offer unsurpassed security and tranquility. The transformative project will consist of two graceful 60-story towers to be connected at the summit by a three-story floating glass skybridge that will boast a 35,000-square-foot private Sky Club curated by legendary hotelier and global tastemaker, Adrian Zecha. Among the many exclusive elements that enhance the experience of being an owner at One River Point are a waterfront restaurant and lounge set on the River promenade, an infinity-edge oasis pool and regulation size lap pool, poolside café and restaurant with butler service, private cabanas, and Med Spa.
One River Point will feature approximately 360 bespoke residences with private elevator landings, expansive open layouts with floor-to-ceiling glass walls, ceiling heights 10 to 12 feet, honed stone flooring, designated art walls with task lighting, multi-zone climate control integrated with smart-home technology, 12-foot deep glass enclosed outdoor living terraces with panoramic vistas of the Miami River, Biscayne Bay, and the city skyline. The towers will also include individually tailored penthouses, SkyLofts and SkyVillas that range from 5,000 to 12,000 square feet and feature expansive outdoor living rooms and private pools.
Strategically located within the city’s buzzing epicenter, just steps from the Brickell financial district and Brickell City Centre, and within minutes from Miami Beach, the Port of Miami, major international airports, and cultural landmarks including the Adrienne Arsht Center, American Airlines Arena and Perez Art Museum Miami, One River Point is the ultimate destination for those who seek to be part of the new Miami.
For additional information about One River Point visit www.oneriverpoint.com or contact (305) 809-7566. The temporary sales gallery is located at 92 SW 3rd Street in Miami.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005743/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005743/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}