GENEVA & MILAN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
WISeKey International Holding Ltd (WIHN.SW) (“WISeKey”), a Swiss cybersecurity company and Boole Server, an Italian vendor of data-centric protection company, today announced their partnership to secure mobile communications and transactions through the new WISeID BooleBox app.
The WISEID suite of apps is already distributed successfully by WISeKey, allowing users to lock personal data, including account usernames and passwords, credit card numbers and access PINs, into a secure personal data organizer vault. The vault can only be unlocked with the user’s Master Password and/or defined pattern and facial recognition authentication.
The experience and knowledge of WiseKey met the BooleBox technology, the secure sharing solution that protects company data from external attacks and insider theft, by means of guaranteed military grade encryption. Available with In-Cloud, On-Premises or Hybrid versions, BooleBox allows users to share and sync files and folders and collaborate with multiple people inside of a workgroup. The BooleBox approach focuses on security – data is encrypted both in transit and at rest with 256-bit AES encryption, and the encryption persists also on files while editing. A particular focus of this approach is that the BooleBox platform eliminates the possibility of having hackers or IT employees with access to everything, potentially releasing the information to the internet at large, or selling it off in an act of corporate espionage. The importance of this is paramount in light of recent cases, such as a former Ford employee stealing trade secrets (http://www.cnn.com/2010/CRIME/11/18/michigan.ford.trade.secrets/), or a disgruntled ex-employee remotely disabling the cars of people with auto loans (http://www.wired.com/2010/03/hacker-bricks-cars/).
Permission settings can be set with a high level of granularity, and are managed by the creator of the data, not the IT systems administrator. The system also restricts copy and paste, and screen printing/video streaming of protected documents.
Boole Server and WISeKey agree that there are mutually beneficial synergies that would result from their collaboration and therefore envisage integrating WISeKey’s Global Root and Public Key Infrastructures into BooleBox´s, to prevent leakage of personal information by means of peer authentication and trusted and secure email, secure data transmission directly to encrypted clouds. Both parties are taking advantage of the opportunities and advantages of being among the first movers in this field and therefore are focusing their efforts on developing this collaboration as quickly and effectively as possible with a view to deploy a brand new application based on WISeKey and BooleBox technologies. The new WISeID BooleBox app will provide the BooleBox capabilities to WISeID users, enhancing the security more even by providing more control on the file encryption and secure file sharing.
The two companies will collaborate to create the app in response to the growing number of mobile security threats as hackers continue to exploit Android and iOS devices with malware.
About Boole Server
Boole Server is the market leading vendor of data-centric protection, secure file sharing and rights management technology. Addressing needs of hundreds of customers worldwide, from leading global brands to small businesses, Boole Server provides security solutions to protect the sharing of sensitive data wherever it is needed, both inside and outside the organization. International Vendor Company, Boole Server has its headquarter and R&D department in Italy and its commercial offices are located in US and in Europe.
Official website: www.boolebox.comArticles about BooleBox can be found at https://www.boolebox.com/media/dicono-di-noi/
About WISeKey
WISeKey (SIX Swiss Exchange:WIHN) is a leading global digital security and CyberSecurity company. Working at the forefront of information cybersecurity, identity management, and mobile security, WISeKey’s mission is to facilitate the global growth of secure electronic transactions by providing individuals, businesses, cities, citizens, objects, and governments with advanced technology and services that authenticate and protect digital identity across the full spectrum of personal, business and administrative transactions online. At the heart of this 4th Industrial Revolution strategy is the OISTE-WISeKey Cryptographic Root of Trust which has been actively used since 1999 by over 2.6 billion desktops, browsers, mobile devices, SSL certificates and Internet of Things’ devices. The OISTE WISeKey Cryptographic Root of Trust is ubiquitous and universal, and a pioneer in the identification of objects. WISeKey is a Global Growth Partner of the World Economic Forum. More articles can be found at https://www.wisekey.com/ .
Interested about Latest News about WISeKey subscribe to our Newsletter or visit WISeKey Investors Corner.
Disclaimer:
This communication expressly or implicitly contains certain forward-looking statements concerning WISeKey International Holding Ltd and its business. Such statements involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause the actual results, financial condition, performance or achievements of WISeKey International Holding Ltd to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. WISeKey International Holding Ltd is providing this communication as of this date and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities, and it does not constitute an offering prospectus within the meaning of article 652a or article 1156 of the Swiss Code of Obligations or a listing prospectus within the meaning of the listing rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange. Investors must rely on their own evaluation of WISeKey and its securities, including the merits and risks involved. Nothing contained herein is, or shall be relied on as, a promise or representation as to the future performance of WISeKey.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006573/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}