DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Mobile 3D Market - Trends and Forecast, 2015 - 2021" report to their offering.
Mobile 3D market report includes detailed competitive scenario and product portfolio of key vendors. It also includes an analysis of Porter's Five Forces model for the mobile 3D market to understand the competitive landscape in the market. The study involves market attractiveness analysis, and application and product segments are bench-marked on the basis of their growth rate, market size, and general attractiveness.
The regional segmentation includes the current and forecast demand for North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East and Africa with its further bifurcation into major countries including U.S. Germany, France, UK, China, Japan, India, and Brazil. This segmentation includes demand for mobile 3D market based on individual applications in all the regions and countries. This report offers the thoughtful view on the mobile 3D market by segmenting the market on the basis of applications and types. All the application segments have been analyzed on the basis of present and future trends and the market is analyzed from 2015 to 2021. Major application segments included in this study include 3D mobile gaming, 3D mobile advertising and others.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1 Preface
Chapter 2 Executive Summary
Chapter 3 Global Mobile 3D Market - Global and Industry Analysis
Chapter 4 Global Mobile 3D Market - Competitive Landscape
Chapter 5 Global Mobile 3D Market - Type Segment Analysis
Chapter 6 Global Mobile 3D Market - Application Segment Analysis
Chapter 7 Global Mobile 3D Market - Regional Segment Analysis
Chapter 8 Company Profile
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/wv2rr8/global_mobile_3d

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005738/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}