LINCOLN, Neb.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Crete Carrier has always been a leader in the industry when it comes to driver pay and benefits. For the past ten years, the National Transportation Institute has awarded Crete and Shaffer a Top Pay Certified Carrier for their overall pay and benefits package. Crete is taking the lead again in recognizing the value of quality drivers. Effective January 1, 2017, Crete is raising the pay for their dedicated Wal-Mart fleet. The graph below details the new pay structure.
“Our drivers are our most valuable resource. They work hard every day safely serving our customers, and that dedication is appreciated. We lead the industry in CSA scores, retention, and customer satisfaction, and that is because of the quality drivers we have with our family. This pay increase is just one way we are investing in our most valuable resource,” says Tonn Ostergard, president and CEO of Crete Carrier.
Crete understands that benefits beyond the paycheck are equally important to drivers. The company leads the industry in both health and retirement packages. For 2017, there will be no increases in the premiums or deductibles. Single drivers can receive full benefits for only $34 per week, and that includes health insurance from Blue Cross Blue Shield of Nebraska with a low $1,000 deductible, dental, life, and vision. Crete consciously made the decision to provide great healthcare, no matter what happens this year regarding health insurance. Drivers also have an opportunity to participate in a company match 401(k) retirement program and are automatically enrolled to receive profit-sharing benefits. Last year, Crete Carrier contributed $7.5 million into the profit-sharing program. This is all in addition to guaranteed detention pay and no-cost rider policy.
Additionally, Crete has upgraded half of their trucks in the past 15 months, making the average age of trucks less than two years old.
Crete Carrier Corporation continues to prove itself as a driver-centric employer. As one of the industry leaders in retention, drivers stay with Crete three times longer than the competition. Much of this success is due to the continued efforts to ensure drivers have the miles they want to make the good living they deserve.
Crete will be hosting a career fair on December 14-15, 2016 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day. The fair will be held at:
Comfort Inn Central401 E 58th AveDenver, CO 80216
About Crete Carrier CorporationAs a privately owned company founded in 1966, Crete Carrier Corporation, along with operating division Shaffer Trucking and wholly-owned subsidiary Hunt Transportation, Inc., ranks as one of the largest trucking companies in the country, offering a full range of transportation services to our customers. For more information about Crete Carrier Corporation, please visit http://www.CreteCarrierJobs.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006063/en/
 .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}