Steel Authority of India Ltd., the country’s top producer, booked a loss for the sixth straight quarter, almost in line with analyst estimates.
The company lost 7.3 billion rupees ($108 million) in the three months through September compared with a shortfall of 11.1 billion rupees a year ago, the company said in a statement on Thursday. That compares with 7.6 billion rupees estimated by 14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales climbed about 20 percent to 124.3 billion rupees.
India has tightened curbs on cheaper imports from countries including China as domestic mills ramp up production on expectations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will boost spending on infrastructure, roads and power. Modi’s move last month to scrap higher denominated currency may hurt local demand, limiting suppliers’ scope to increase prices, according to Jefferies India Pvt.
More from Bloomberg.com: Dear Mr. Trump, About Those U.S. IPhones
“The company is certain that it will be able to improve its physical and financial performance in future,” because of government measures to boost demand, efforts to reduce costs and improvements in productivity, SAIL said in a statement.
SAIL joins Tata Steel Ltd. in posting a negative result for the period partly on weaker product prices and as Tata’s operations in the U.K. remained a drag on earnings, while the nation’s second-largest producer JSW Steel Ltd. reported a third straight profit on record output.
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
Shares of SAIL gained 3 percent to 53.55 rupees in Mumbai on Thursday before the earnings. The stock has climbed 11 percent this year, after plunging 41 percent in 2015, as government measures curb imports and prospects for domestic demand improve.
The mill is spending 40 billion rupees this year on increasing capacity by 43 percent to 21.4 million metric tons by 2018, part of a longer term goal of achieving 50 million tons in the next decade.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Steel Authority of India Posts Loss for Sixth Straight Quarter on bloomberg.com