SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Square, Inc. (SQ) announced today that it has completed the acquisition of certain assets of Main Line Delivery, an easy-to-use service that allows diners to place orders for delivery from popular restaurants in the Main Line region of Philadelphia. Over the past eight years, Main Line Delivery has worked closely with the best restaurants in the area and upheld their commitment to hospitality and service for all sides of their marketplace including customers, couriers, and restaurants alike.
Caviar is part of Square’s full suite of tools for businesses, enabling restaurants across the country to reach more customers, grow their sales and expand their reach. Caviar restaurant delivery service prides itself on its speedy delivery times, with their Philadelphia market boasting some of the fastest Caviar deliveries in the nation. Caviar launched its service in Philadelphia two years ago with just 40 restaurants and now partners directly with over 300 restaurants across the city. Adding Main Line Delivery to Caviar’s growing presence in Philadelphia will bring even more restaurant options to more customers in more parts of Pennsylvania.
To coincide with this news, Caviar is also expanding Secret Menu items to customers in Philadelphia. Across town, select Caviar restaurant partners will introduce some off-menu items that are available exclusively through Caviar delivery moving forward, including popcorn seitan from Blackbird Pizzeria, seafood fried rice from DanDan, the Buffalo chicken burger from SpOt Gourmet Burgers, and more from Buena Onda, Pizzeria Vetri, and others. Customers can check out the full lineup of Caviar exclusives online at trycaviar.com/philadelphia/l/secretmenu.
About Caviar
Caviar is an easy way to order meals from popular local restaurants across the U.S. Customers can order ahead on the web, or instantly from Caviar’s free mobile app for iOS and Android. Caviar provides customers with quick, reliable delivery service no matter where they are. In New York City and San Francisco, customers can also access Fastbite, a quick and affordable way to order curated meals from some of the city's best restaurants.
Caviar is part of Square’s full suite of tools for businesses, enabling restaurants across the country to reach more customers, grow their sales and expand their reach. Caviar provides service in Brooklyn, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Manhattan, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Queens, Sacramento, the San Francisco Bay Area (including the East Bay & Marin), Seattle, Portland and Washington D.C.
About Square
Square creates tools that help sellers of all sizes start, run, and grow their businesses. Square's point-of-sale service offers tools for every part of running a business, from accepting credit cards and tracking inventory, to real-time analytics and invoicing. Square also offers sellers financial and marketing services, including small business financing and customer engagement tools. Businesses and individuals use Square Cash, an easy way to send and receive money, as well as Caviar, a food delivery service for popular restaurants. Square was founded in 2009 and is headquartered in San Francisco, with offices in the United States, Canada, Japan, and Australia.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005370/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}