SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Mulberrys--the Minnesota-based artisan laundry and dry cleaning service--today announced its acquisition of San Francisco-based GreenStreets Cleaners.
Mulberrys will now own and operate ten GreenStreets storefront locations and two Cleaning Labs in the San Francisco Bay Area, providing the same toxin-free dry cleaning service and bespoke customer experience that has made the company so popular in Minnesota's Twin Cities. With the GreenStreets acquisition, Mulberrys now operates sixteen stores throughout the U.S., with more locations coming soon.
“Mulberrys is on a mission to establish the first national garment care brand. San Francisco and Silicon Valley are among the most discerning markets in the U.S. and we are thrilled to build upon GreenStreets’ local success in the Bay Area,” said Mulberrys founder & CEO Dan Miller.
GreenStreets was founded in 2007 by Kevin Kneafsey and Glenn Gilmore, who built it into a local favorite, winning “Best of” awards from publications like the San Francisco Chronicle and SF Weekly.
"We really admire Mulberrys' vision for the future of garment care and are excited to take these next steps together," said Kneafsey.
The new Mulberrys Bay Area locations include stores in San Francisco, Mission Bay, South Beach, Marina/Cow Hollow, Belmont, Burlingame, San Carlos and Palo Alto. They will be staffed by 65 local employees.
“Loads of tech startups have tried to use outsourcing and apps to disrupt the $10 billion dry cleaning and laundry industry. Mulberrys is instead focused on controlling the entire pipeline. From laundering clothes in our own Cleaning Labs, to having Mulberrys employees handle all pick-ups and deliveries, we are vertically integrated. This makes a huge difference to customers when trusting us with their cherished garments,” said Miller.
Mulberrys provides:
About Mulberrys:
Founded on the idea that garment care should be a craft, not a commodity, Mulberrys offers toxin-free dry cleaning, eco-friendly detergents, biodegradable packaging and on-demand laundry service at sixteen locations in California’s San Francisco Bay Area and Minnesota’s Twin Cities region.
www.mulberryscleaners.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005291/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}