GOSHEN, Ind.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Supreme Industries, Inc. (NYSE MKT:STS), a leading manufacturer of specialized commercial vehicles including truck bodies and specialty vehicles, today announced the delivery of a pilot truck being field tested in the Business Delivery Fleet of Costco Wholesale Corporation (COST).
Utilizing Supreme’s proprietary FiberPanel™ Honeycomb (HC) composite sidewalls, in addition to other customized features which reduced the body weight by 27%, resulting in a 1000 pound improvement in payload capacity for the 26-foot Costco Business Delivery truck.
“This new Van Body is the latest example of how Supreme works with customers to understand their unique work-truck applications and develop customized solutions,” explained Mark Weber, Supreme’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “After studying Costco’s Business Delivery Fleet in the field, we were able to engineer customized design enhancements that significantly increased payload capacity.”
“Costco’s ‘Truck of the Future’ program is an internal initiative aimed at maximizing efficiency in our growing delivery fleets,” added Michael Espitia, Costco’s Regional Administration Manager. “As we strategically broaden Ecommerce and business replenishment services, customer convenience is improving without compromising Costco’s value proposition. In conjunction with our fleet management partners at Penske, Supreme customized this truck to achieve these specific objectives.”
Heavy Duty Trucking magazine named Supreme’s FiberPanel HC technology one of its top 20 products for 2015.
About Supreme Industries
Supreme Industries, Inc. (NYSE MKT:STS), is a nationwide manufacturer of truck bodies and specialty vehicles produced to the specifications of its customers. The Company’s transportation equipment products are used by a wide variety of industrial, commercial and law enforcement customers.
News releases and other information on the company are available online at: www.supremecorp.com or www.b2i.us/irpass.asp?BzID=1482&to=ea&s=0
About Costco Wholesale Corporation
Costco currently operates 717 warehouses, including 503 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 91 in Canada, 36 in Mexico, 28 in the United Kingdom, 25 in Japan, 12 in Korea, 12 in Taiwan, eight in Australia and two in Spain. The Company plans to open up to an additional seven new warehouses (including one relocation) before the end of calendar year 2016. Costco also operates electronic commerce web sites in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Korea and Taiwan.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005471/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}