President Park Geun-hye is “ready” to face an impeachment vote Friday, according to a senior legislative leader, as an influence-peddling scandal that has shaken South Korea for weeks heads to a climax.
Park would accept the result of the vote, Chung Jin-suk, floor leader of the ruling Saenuri Party, said in televised comments Tuesday after meeting with the president. If parliament votes in favor of impeaching her, Chung said she would wait with a “calm and serene mind” until a constitutional court decided whether to approve the motion.
More from Bloomberg.com: Putin Shows Off Russia's Embarrassing Aircraft Carrier
Opposition lawmakers said Monday they might have enough votes  in the 300-seat National Assembly to impeach her. If 200 or more lawmakers vote in favor, Park would be suspended from power while a court takes as many as 180 days to review the constitutionality of the move. If the court agrees, a presidential election would be held in 60 days, with the prime minister staying on as interim leader.
The stage is now set for the impeachment vote Friday. Success by the opposition could pacify the anti-Park protests that have been swelling by the week in Seoul. Should she survive the vote, the demonstrators may return, growing increasingly frustrated as the country limps along through political uncertainty.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump’s ‘Retribution’ Tax Stirs Questions, GOP Resistance
“She’s run out of options after her apologies failed to make a difference,” said Choi Chang-ryul, a political commentator and professor of liberal arts at Yong In University. “She also seems to think she has a chance of winning the case at the court.”
Six of the nine judges have to agree for her to be removed from power. The court rejected an impeachment motion against former President Roh Moo-hyun in 2004. Park has said she hasn’t committed any wrongdoing and blamed her associates for what prosecutors called a scheme to extract tens of millions of dollars from top companies.
More from Bloomberg.com: Netanyahu Wants to Discuss Iran With Trump as Tensions Grow
Hundreds of thousands of people have taken to the streets to demand her resignation since saying in October that she allowed her friend, Choi Soon-sil, to meddle in government affairs. On Tuesday, senior executives at nine of South Korea’s largest companies, including Samsung Group and Hyundai Motor Group, were grilled by lawmakers, and denied they made their donations in return for government favors.
 Read more: The influence-peddling scandal rocking South Korea 
Park felt responsible for the turmoil and remained willing to follow a ruling party proposal for her to step down in April, Chung said. The opposition and a faction of her party plan to go ahead with an impeachment vote regardless of whether she resigns in April. The faction would provide the opposition with just enough votes to impeach Park. More than 170 opposition and independent politicians endorsed the motion filed last week.
Updates with analyst comment in fourth paragraph.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read South Korean President ‘Ready’ to Face Friday Impeachment Vote on bloomberg.com