PLANO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Tyler Technologies, Inc. (TYL) has signed software-as-a-service (SaaS) agreements with its first six ElectriCities of NC, Inc. jurisdictions in North Carolina to provide them with Tyler’s Incode® utility billing and financial management solution. Tyler will perform data conversion for each jurisdiction, which will all go live with Incode by the end of 2017.
Tyler was selected as ElectriCities’ preferred vendor to recommend Incode to its members as a new utility billing software that provides a scalable, affordable billing solution. Under the recent agreements, Tyler will perform data conversion and ElectriCities will host Tyler’s software for the following municipalities in its Raleigh-based data center: Statesville; Farmville; Cherryville; and Smithfield. The town of Ayden also selected Tyler’s EnerGov planning, permitting and licensing solution, in addition to the billing solution, and the City of Washington selected Tyler’s billing solution, but will be hosting it at their facility.
“We’re excited to begin implementing our Incode solution to several ElectriCities member sites,” said Dane Womble, president of Tyler’s Local Government Division. “This valuable partnership will benefit ElectriCities members by providing a fully integrated financial, utility billing and citizen facing solution suite. We look forward to implementing industry best practices, creating operational efficiencies and sharing experiences among the member cities.”
Tyler demonstrated Incode to each jurisdiction, during which the solution was discussed in detail. Because of the preferred vendor agreement between ElectriCities and Tyler, these jurisdictions can work directly with Tyler to implement Incode. The solution will modernize the cities’ existing accounting and enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems as needed. The jurisdictions range from 5,000 to 25,000 residents; with Incode, smaller cities can leverage the same technology and functionality as larger cities.
About ElectriCities of NC, Inc.
ElectriCities serves more than 70 municipalities in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia, all of which run electric systems that provide power to metered customers. ElectriCities provides customer service and safety training, emergency and technical assistance, communications, government affairs and legal services. Through consolidation of these services, members save their customers the expense of administering these functions locally. ElectriCities also provides management services to the state’s two municipal Power Agencies: North Carolina Municipal Power Agency Number 1 (NCMPA1) and North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA). Most member cities have been in the electric business for 100 years or more. For more information, please visit www.electricities.com.
About Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Tyler Technologies (TYL) is a leading provider of end-to-end information management solutions and services for local governments. Tyler partners with clients to empower the public sector — cities, counties, schools and other government entities — to become more efficient, more accessible and more responsive to the needs of their constituents. Tyler’s client base includes more than 14,000 local government offices in all 50 states, Canada, the Caribbean, the United Kingdom and other international locations. In 2016, Forbes ranked Tyler on their “Most Innovative Growth Companies” list, and it has also named Tyler one of “America’s Best Small Companies” eight times. The company has been included six times on the Barron’s 400 Index, a measure of the most promising companies in America. More information about Tyler Technologies, headquartered in Plano, Texas, can be found at www.tylertech.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005102/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}