RESTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Transaction Network Services (TNS) is celebrating a significant milestone this month as it marks 20 years serving the financial markets. As one of the world’s largest dedicated electronic trading connectivity networks, TNS now has more than 2,000 financial community endpoints connected to its Secure Trading Extranet.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005163/en/ 
In 1996, TNS was the first organization to launch a secure, low latency network designed specifically to handle mission-critical trades, market data and other related information and messages. Since this time it has continually invested in and expanded its services, most recently launching a managed hosting and co-location solution as well as a trading hub dedicated to the FIX Protocol.
Alex Walker, Executive Vice President and Managing Director of TNS’ Financial Services Division, said: “We are delighted to be celebrating 20 years serving the financial markets. Our resilient connectivity options are optimized for electronic securities trading and are continually streamlined and improved to ensure they meet the evolving needs of this dynamic industry.
“Our expert team of financial market specialists have created an unrivalled network which includes connections into most of the leading financial community hubs, including Equinix’s NY2, NY4, CH4, LD4, TY3 and NJ4 facilities, as well as Interxion in London. We offer cost effective fully managed one-to-many connectivity and access to an extensive financial community of interest which now surpasses 2,000 endpoints.”
The TNS network has over 125 points-of-presence (POPs) and new POPs are regularly opened to reinforce the network and provide more efficient routing. The most recent additions include Equinix’s FR2 in Frankfurt, Germany and Yeouido in Seoul, Korea.
TNS’ financial community of interest includes buy and sell side institutions, market data and software vendors, exchanges and alternative trading venues. It has connections to over 700 financial institutions globally and more than 300 market feeds from over 55 stock exchanges and electronic communications networks (ECNs). Connectivity to multiple trading venues can be established in as little as 3 business days.
Mr Walker, who has been with TNS for more than a decade, added: “We have designed our core network to ensure no single point of failure, and we offer a variety of resilient physical connections for clients to connect to and through our network. Our services can also help eliminate some of the challenges presented by MiFID, MiFID II, Dodd Frank and Regulation NMS.
“We have a comprehensive understanding of the financial markets and have been actively involved with the FIX Trading Community for many years. We encourage our team to participate in industry events and serve on working group committees. The success we have received to date is rewarding and we’re excited to see what the next 20 years brings.”
TNS’ solutions are relied on by the global financial markets for mission-critical connectivity to multiple diverse trading partners, including those in emerging markets across the Americas, Asia and Europe. It provides 24x7x365 monitoring and helpdesk support via a number of Network Operating Centers around the world. To find out more please visit www.tnsfinancial.com.
About Transaction Network Services:
Transaction Network Services (TNS) is a leading global provider of data communications and interoperability solutions. TNS offers a broad range of networks and innovative value-added services which enable transactions and the exchange of information in diverse industries such as retail, banking, payment processing, telecommunications and the financial markets.
Founded in 1990 in the United States, TNS has grown steadily and now provides services in over 60 countries across the Americas, Europe and the Asia Pacific region, with our reach extending to many more. TNS has designed and implemented multiple data networks which support a variety of widely accepted communications protocols and are designed to be scalable and accessible by multiple methods.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005163/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005163/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}