NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the 'BBB-' rating on approximately $7.8 million of California Statewide Communities Development Authority charter school revenue bonds issued on behalf of the Green Dot Public Schools California (GDPSC), Animo Inglewood Charter High School (AI).
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The bonds are secured by pledged revenues of AI, including local control funding formula funds from the state of California (IDR 'AA-'/Outlook Stable). Additional security provisions include a cash-funded reserve equal to maximum annual debt service (MADS).
KEY RATING DRIVERS
SOUND FINANCIAL OPERATIONS: The 'BBB-' rating reflects AI's sound operating results and debt service coverage due to stable enrollment, increasing per-pupil funding, and good expense management through GDPSC. AI has ample student demand and some flexibility to enroll additional students.
ESTABLISHED OPERATING HISTORY: AI has a fairly long operating history and multiple charter renewals. In 2015, AI received its third charter renewal for a full term of five years, reflecting consistently strong academic results exceeding district and state averages. AI is operated by Green Dot Public Schools, which manages 21 schools in California.
STRUCTURE LIMITS LIQUIDITY: Liquidity held at AI is minimal, as funds and transactions are handled on its behalf by GDPSC. Bond covenants require a fund balance at AI of only 5% of the prior year's operating expenses. However, limited liquidity is partially mitigated by AI's consistently strong operating results and strong support and oversight from GDPSC.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
STANDARD CHARTER RISKS: A limited financial cushion; substantial reliance on enrollment-driven, per pupil funding; and charter renewal risk are credit concerns common among all charter school transactions that, if pressured, could negatively affect Animo Inglewood Charter High School's rating.
CREDIT PROFILE
Animo Inglewood is a charter high school located in Inglewood, CA. Certified in 2001 and initiating operations in 2002 with 140 freshman students, AI has received three charter renewals since creation, most recently in 2015 for a full five-year term. Fitch was unable to speak with AI's authorizer, the Inglewood Unified School District, prior to publication. However, AI's recent renewal and strong academic track record partially offset charter renewal risk.
GDPS serves over 11,000 students across a network of 26 schools. Most schools are in CA, in the greater Los Angeles area, but GDPS now operates schools in TN and WA. In exchange for a shared services fee, AI enjoys access to GDPSC's favorable vendor contracts, academic and financial management support, and fundraising capabilities.
STRONG ACADEMICS AND DEMAND
AI has strong academic results which drive sound demand and enrollment. AI's results on state-wide tests in spring 2016 exceeded district averages by a wide margin and also exceed state averages. AI is fully enrolled within its target enrollment of 550-650, with 636 students as of Oct. 5, 2016, and maintains a large and up-to-date waitlist. Fitch views AI's strong demand as sources of financial flexibility; if necessary, AI could draw additional students and thereby increase its revenue.
CONSISTENTLY POSITIVE OPERATING MARGINS
AI generates sound operating margins and coverage of debt service due to stable enrollment, increasing per-pupil funding, and good expense management through GDPSC. Operating margins averaged 9.8% from fiscal years 2011 to 2015, and preliminary 2016 results are stronger due to higher-than-expected enrollment. These figures include expense for the shared services fee paid to GDPSC, which is technically subordinate to debt service. AI's operating strength and flexibility mitigate its high reliance (consistently over 70%) on per pupil funding, which is typical of charter schools.
HIGH BUT MANAGEABLE DEBT BURDEN
The school's debt burden is high, with MADS consuming 10% of fiscal 2015 operating revenues. This level is moderating over time and is stronger than Fitch's minimum expectation of a MADS burden of 15% or less for investment-grade charter schools. AI's high debt burden is also manageable in light of cash flow. Coverage of MADS from operations was sound at 1.8x in fiscal 2015, well above Fitch's baseline expectation of at least 1.0x MADS coverage for investment-grade charter schools. Excluding the subordinate shared services fee, fiscal 2015 coverage would have exceeded 3x. There are no significant capital or debt plans related to Animo Inglewood at this time.
LIMITED LIQUIDITY
All material cash and investments balances are held at GDPSC and are not reflected in AI's financials. GDPSC is required to maintain a minimum unrestricted fund balance at AI equal to 5% of AI's operating expenditures in the previous fiscal year, pursuant to a net asset covenant in the bond indenture. Using this as a proxy for legally available funds, AI's balance sheet resources represent a very low 3.6% of net outstanding debt. However, limited liquidity is mitigated by consistently strong operating results and oversight by GDPSC.
Further mitigating weak liquidity, AI reports a $2.2 million intracompany receivable, primarily its cash held at GDPSC. However, this cash is not segregated or pledged to bondholders. In addition, GDPSC management affirms that it would support AI, or any of its managed schools, to the extent possible if they encountered financial stress.
Fitch believes that GDPSC's adequate resource base and operational support could help offset AI's limited liquidity in a downside scenario. However, Fitch's rating does not assume any support from GDPSC; GDPSC resources are not pledged for payment of the bonds and are potentially subject to liquidation in support of other schools or projects.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
Applicable Criteria
Charter School Rating Criteria (pub. 04 Nov 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/889812
Revenue-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 16 Jun 2014)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/750012
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015701
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015701
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006488/en/