DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (JEC) invites investors and other interested parties to listen to a live webcast of its 2016 Investor Day presentation to financial analysts from the Convene Center in New York City on Thursday, December 1, beginning at 8.00 A.M. Eastern Time.
In conjunction with Jacobs 2016 Investor Day, members of the executive leadership team will share their vision and value-creation strategy for the company, including Jacobs’ transformation to drive long-term profitable growth and enhance shareholder value.
Interested parties can view the presentation and listen to the live webcast by going to www.jacobs.com.
About Jacobs Engineering Group
Jacobs is one of the world’s largest and most diverse providers of full-spectrum technical, professional and construction services for industrial, commercial and government organizations globally. The company employs over 54,000 people and operates in more than 25 countries around the world. For more information, visit www.jacobs.com.
Statements made in this press release that are not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management's current estimates and expectations, and currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and you should not place undue reliance on such statements as actual results may differ materially. We caution the reader that there are a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is contained, projected or implied by our forward-looking statements. For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2016, and in particular the discussions contained under Item 1 - Business; Item 1A - Risk Factors; Item 3 - Legal Proceedings; and Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as the Company’s other filings with the SEC. We also caution the readers of this release that we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements made herein.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005652/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}