TAINAN, Taiwan--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
A Tainan-based National Cheng Kung University (NCKU) group of design thinkers recently hosted a special training program on creative policy making with a sixteen-member Indonesian delegation of mayors, head of local agencies and academics from Palangka Raya, Singkawang, and Jogjakarta to seek for innovative solutions and picture Indonesia’s future cities in 2026.
During the four-day training, the delegation led by Singkawang’s mayor Dr. Awang Ishak and Palangka Raya’s vice mayor Dr. Ir. Mofit Saptono Subagio, M.P. explored the possibilities in developing city branding for their cities.
In the process, the delegates also learned about Taiwan, especially Tainan’s business, cultural creative industries, agriculture, and tourism to get the inspirations for improving their local competitiveness.
NCKU President Huey-Jen Jenny Su extended her warm welcome to the Indonesian delegation and gave her remarks at the closing ceremony, “We’d like to think when you develop your city you would be even more successful than we were fifty years ago. So we would enjoy your successful stories when we come to see you in your country.”
Vice Mayor of Palangka Raya Dr. Ir. Mofit Saptono Subagio, M.P., claimed that the workshop organization surprised them. With the facilitation of the design thinkers, they could produce a focused and detailed plan within a short period of time.
“Palangka Raya puts forward and enjoys the benefits from the conservation of natural resources,” according to Mofit while talking about the vision for Palangka Raya.
“In the past three days, we tried to focus on main vision for the city of Singkawang in the coming ten years – to make Singkawang as a beautiful city,” Ir. Anwar Sanusi Umarnur noted.
Leslie Tsai, head of NCKU facilitators of design thinking, commented, “The way the Indonesian government officers communicate is very much hierarchy-based, but we offer them a chance to listen and respect every ideas from every member regardless their positions.”
Tsai, a PhD candidate of Creative Industries Design in NCKU, continued, “By empowering the delegates to appreciate their own culture and collaborate with their own staff, their mindset has gradually changed. We see every group generate ideas, visualize their concepts in the prototyping stage, test the ideas with their target audience, and repeat the process all over.”

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006505/en/