AT&T Inc. Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson told Congress his company’s planned $85.4 billion purchase of HBO and CNN owner Time Warner Inc. will help the telecommunications provider challenge cable companies for customers.
The deal also may hasten AT&T’s development of faster 5G wireless service to deliver its newly acquired video content, Stephenson said in testimony submitted to the U.S. Senate Judiciary antitrust subcommittee for a hearing Wednesday.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Slams Boeing Air Force One With ‘Cancel Order!’ Tweet
“Together, AT&T and Time Warner will disrupt the entrenched pay-TV models,” said Stephenson, whose company serves 133 million U.S. wireless customers and 25 million video subscribers. Consumers want to “watch their favorite video content anytime, anywhere,” Stephenson said.
Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes said in his submitted testimony that the combination will allow faster moves toward new channel packages delivered over the internet.
The deal needs to be carefully reviewed and possibly blocked because it poses a danger of harming competition, leading to higher costs and fewer choices for video services, Gene Kimmelman, a former antitrust regulator who is president of the policy group Public Knowledge, said in submitted testimony.
More from Bloomberg.com: Chicago Faces Political Power Outage as Trump Succeeds Obama
Leaders of the antitrust subcommittee -- Senators Mike Lee, a Utah Republican and Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat -- said in an Oct. 23 statement the acquisition “would potentially raise significant antitrust issues.” They called the hearing scheduled for Wednesday morning in Washington.
The transaction announced Oct. 22 will be reviewed by the Justice Department, according to the companies, and possibly by the Federal Communications Commission.
President-elect Donald Trump said during the campaign he would block the merger if he became president, but he hasn’t weighed in since.
The U.S. review of the deal should be straightforward, and the companies will probably have to make some concessions, Stephenson told investors Tuesday. After his talk, Stephenson said in a brief interview that he hasn’t met with Trump.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump’s ‘Retribution’ Tax Stirs Questions, GOP Resistance
More from Bloomberg.com
Read AT&T’s Stephenson Tells Congress Deal Will Help Challenge Cable on bloombergpolitics.com