SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Scality, world leader in object and cloud storage, announces that IDC has again named the company a global leader in object storage in its IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Object-Based Storage 2016 Vendor Assessment, (Doc#US41918416, December 2016). Scality was previously named a leader in the last two IDC MarketScape reports on this market. Its continued position as a leader reflects Scality’s deep understanding of what is required to be successful in the object storage market segment.
Object Storage is one of the fastest growing segments of the Enterprise Storage Market. According to the IDC report “Worldwide File - and Object - Based Storage Forecast, 2016 – 2020” (IDC #US41685816, September 2016), it is estimated that object-based storage capacity is expected to grow at a CAGR of 30.7 percent from 2016 to 2020, reaching 293.7EB in 2020.
“It is gratifying to see that across a field of 12 vendors Scality has been named a Leader for our capabilities and strategy,” said Jerome Lecat, CEO at Scality. “Our teams work very hard to deliver 100 percent availability and durability to ensure zero data loss with our solutions and being recognized for the effort is a great feeling.”
Scality’s principal platform is a scale-out object storage platform known as the RING. Scality’s RING delivers petabyte-scale software-defined storage designed to use commodity hardware and characterized by cost-effective scaling, performance, and auto-recovery. Scality's RING is a multitier architecture and can scale up to thousands of servers and many 100s of petabytes under a single global namespace. It allows customers to deploy both performance-optimized and capacity-optimized storage, varied data durability levels, and small to large object and file support in a single global namespace.
Per Amita Potnis at IDC, “Scality is in a strong position to increase its footprint in the marketplace.” i
For more information on the Scality RING, please visit http://www.scality.com/ring/object-storage-overview/. For a look at the full IDC MarketScape report visit http://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=US41918416.
i. IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Object-Based Storage 2016 Vendor Assessment, (Doc#US41918416, December 2016)
About IDC MarketScape
IDC MarketScape vendor analysis model is designed to provide an overview of the competitive fitness of ICT (information and communications technology) suppliers in a given market. The research methodology utilizes a rigorous scoring methodology based on both qualitative and quantitative criteria that results in a single graphical illustration of each vendor's position within a given market. IDC MarketScape provides a clear framework in which the product and service offerings, capabilities and strategies, and current and future market success factors of IT and telecommunications vendors can be meaningfully compared. The framework also provides technology buyers with a 360 degree assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of current and prospective vendors.
About Scality
Scality, world leader in object and cloud storage, develops cost-effective Software Defined Storage: the RING, which serves over 500 million end-users worldwide with over 800 billion objects in production; and the open-source S3 Server. Scality RING software deploys on any industry-standard x86 server, uniquely delivering performance, 100% availability and data durability, while integrating easily in the datacenter thanks to its native support for directory integration, traditional file applications and over 45 certified applications. Scality’s complete solutions excel at serving the specific storage needs of Global 2000 Enterprise, Media and Entertainment, Government and Cloud Provider customers while delivering up to 90% reduction in TCO versus legacy storage. A global company, Scality is headquartered in San Francisco.
Follow us on Twitter @scality and visit us at www.scality.com to learn more.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005188/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}