OMAHA, Neb.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation (AMTD) today announced the new Department of Labor (DOL) Fiduciary Rule Resource Center website intended to serve as an objective source of information and education for investors who want to learn more about the fiduciary rule and what it could mean for their retirement planning.
The rule is scheduled to become applicable on April 10, 2017. At that time, financial advisors will be required to recommend what is in the best interest of clients when offering investment advice on 401(k) plan assets (including rollovers), individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and other qualified retirement funds.
“The 1,000 pages of fiduciary rule text and explanatory material is exceedingly complex. The average investor likely doesn’t have the time or inclination to explore how it could impact their retirement savings,” said Tom Bradley, president of retail distribution for TD Ameritrade. “We created the resource center to help investors understand what the rule means for them so they can have more productive conversations with their financial services providers.”
TD Ameritrade’s DOL Fiduciary Rule Resource Center breaks down the financial jargon, provides answers to common questions in a simple, objective way, and helps investors understand potential implications for their financial futures. New and updated content, including articles and links to government resources, will be frequently added to the website as the applicability date nears and investors become increasingly aware of the rule.
In addition to the DOL Resource Center website, TD Ameritrade has introduced more ways for retirement investors to obtain guidance and advice. They include free goal planning and a new discretionary investment management service Essential Portfolios.
“While other financial services firms are making major changes to the fees, commissions, service and product offerings as a result of the fiduciary rule, TD Ameritrade has not,” Bradley said. “We’ve been well positioned to comply with the rule from the start and the vast majority of our Retail retirement clients won’t see any significant changes in how they work with us. In fact, rather than take away services from our clients, we plan to give them more tools and education and shift our model a bit to provide more guidance and advice.”
About TD Ameritrade Holding CorporationMillions of investors and independent registered investment advisors (RIAs) have turned to TD Ameritrade’s (AMTD) technology, people and education to help make investing and trading easier to understand and do. Online or over the phone. In a branch or with an independent RIA. First-timer or sophisticated trader. Our clients want to take control, and we help them decide how - bringing Wall Street to Main Street for more than 40 years. An official sponsor of the 2016 U.S. Olympic Team, as well as an official sponsor of the National Football League, TD Ameritrade has time and again been recognized as a leader in investment services. Please visit TD Ameritrade's newsroom or www.amtd.com for more information, or read our stories at http://freshaccounts.amtd.com.
Brokerage services provided by TD Ameritrade, Inc., member FINRA (www.FINRA.org)/SIPC (www.SIPC.org)
Essential Portfolios is an investment advisory service of Amerivest Investment Management, LLC (Amerivest), a registered investment advisor. Amerivest and TD Ameritrade, Inc. are both wholly owned subsidiaries of TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation. Amerivest is a trademark of TD Ameritrade IP Company, Inc. Amerivest provides discretionary advisory services for a fee. Risks applicable to any portfolio are those associated with its underlying securities. For more information, please see the Disclosure Brochure (ADV Part 2) http://www.tdameritrade.com/forms/TDA4855.pdf
Source: TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005029/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}