SYDNEY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
IR, the leading global provider of experience management solutions for unified communications and contact centers, today has been named an IDC Innovator in unified communications (UC) and collaboration management solutions according to a new IDC report, IDC Innovators: Performance Management Solutions for Unified Communications & Collaboration, 2016 (Doc #US41949516), November 2016.
As IT decision-makers grapple with ensuring their existing infrastructure is ready to support traffic from modern UC productivity and collaboration tools driving digital transformation, organizations must invest in management solutions that can assess network readiness and optimize ongoing operations to deliver a great user experience.
As a recipient of the IDC designation, IR is recognized for its Prognosis solution, a fully integrated suite of monitoring and management software that assesses IT infrastructures, predicts leading indicators of imminent failure, and prescribes remedial action.
“IR was named as an IDC Innovator for its competitive advantage derived from its unique intellectual property and 100% software-based probeless design,” said Rich Costello, senior analyst, IDC. “Enterprises and Service Providers can deploy IR Prognosis to bring real-time visibility, insight and control to complex, multi-vendor UC and contact centers.”
“We are honored to be recognized as an IDC Innovator for our role in helping IT organizations solve their complex UC&C management challenges, while driving their business towards digital transformation,” said Darc Rasmussen, managing director and chief executive officer, IR. “Today, Prognosis is relied upon to help organizations deliver an optimal communications experience to millions of enterprise users as well as their customers worldwide. This recognition is a testament to the strength of our dedicated team and our unique Prognosis solution.”
Download a free excerpt of “IDC Innovators: Performance Management Solutions for Unified Communications & Collaboration, 2016” here.
To learn more, register for our next webinar on Hybrid/Cloud UC: Getting the Transition Right here.
"IDC Innovators reports present a set of vendors – under $100M in revenue at time of selection – chosen by an IDC analyst within a specific market that offer an innovative new technology, a groundbreaking approach to an existing issue, and/or an interesting new business model. It is not an exhaustive evaluation of all companies in a segment or a comparative ranking of the companies. Vendors in the process of being acquired by a larger company may be included in the report provided the acquisition is not finalized at the time of publication of the report. Vendors funded by venture capital firms may also be included in the report even if the venture capital firm has a financial stake in the vendor’s company. IDC INNOVATOR and IDC INNOVATORS are trademarks of International Data Group, Inc."
About IR
IR is the corporate brand name of Integrated Research Limited (ASX:IRI), the leading global provider of experience management solutions for critical IT infrastructure, payments and communications ecosystems. More than 1000 organizations in over 60 countries—including some of the world’s largest banks, airlines and telecommunication companies rely on IR Prognosis to provide business critical insights and ensure continuity-critical systems deliver high availability and performance for millions of their customers across the globe. For further information on IR, visit www.ir.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006484/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}