SALT LAKE CITY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Venafi®, the leading provider in cryptographic key and digital certificate security, today announced the addition of new members to its Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Advisory Board. The board works closely with Venafi executives to advance the company’s lead in securing and protecting keys and certificates. The board also contributes insights and provides recommendations on market awareness, market penetration and product strategy. In addition, the board helps Venafi work toward transforming the way organizations around the world evaluate and protect digital trust. The board meets several times a year under the leadership of Venafi CIO and CISO, Tammy Moskites.
"Securing critical infrastructure and protecting privileged access has never been more challenging than it is today,” said Moskites. “We are thrilled to have assembled a team of exemplary security leaders. Their individual and collective expertise is invaluable in our efforts to educate the market on the severity of unprotected encryption and the need to secure authorization and authentication of assets. This team will accelerate market adoption of our solutions.”
The new members of the advisory board include widely respected, visionary CISOs from leading global organizations. These CISOs have already adopted orchestration solutions designed to aggressively protect keys and certificates:
The Venafi CISO Advisory Board discusses the security, business and regulatory issues that surround cryptographic security. The board will also explore educational strategies to help raise awareness around the pervasive impact of cyber attacks that subvert encryption, and help to define and codify the best practices necessary to detect and prevent these attacks.
“The problems we solve are the least understood aspects of security and they are critical to the security and stability of our digital economy,” said Jeff Hudson, CEO of Venafi. “Securing applications, devices, cloud workloads and the Internet of Things is critical. Unfortunately, most organizations use outdated approaches to protect encrypted communications that leave them extremely vulnerable to a broad range of cyber attacks. Simply put, if an organization doesn’t know where keys and certificates are operating in their network, they are not secure. Unfortunately, most organizations do not have this visibility. Each of our CISO Advisory Board members has a deep understanding of these issues and are perfectly positioned to help us transform the market’s perception of these challenges.”
About Venafi
Venafi is the cybersecurity market leader in protecting cryptographic keys and digital certificates, which every business and government depends on to deliver safe encryption, authentication and authorization. Organizations use Venafi key and certificate security to protect communications, commerce, critical systems and data, and mobile and user access.
Venafi provides the Immune System for the Internet®, constantly assessing which keys and certificates are trusted, protecting those that should be trusted, and fixing or blocking those that are not. By protecting the foundation of all cybersecurity—keys and certificates—Venafi prevents them from being misused by cybercriminals. The Venafi Trust Protection Platform delivers an ever-evolving, intelligent response that protects your network, business, and brand.
Venafi customers are among the world's most demanding, security-conscious Global 2000 organizations, including four of the top five U.S. banks, four of the top five U.K banks, four of the top five South African banks, four of the top five U.S. retailers, four of the top five U.S. airlines, and eight of the top ten U.S. health insurers. Venafi is backed by top-tier venture capital funds, including Foundation Capital, Intel Capital, Origin Partners, Pelion Venture Partners, QuestMark Partners, and Silver Lake Partners. For more information, visit www.venafi.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005128/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}