VANCOUVER, British Columbia--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Zafin, a global leader in relationship banking software solutions for the financial services industry, is pleased to announce that Nancy Langer, President and COO, has won a Silver award at the Stevie Awards for Women in Business.
Ms. Langer placed second in the “Female Executive of the Year – Business Products – More Than 2,500 Employees” category for her extensive achievements at both Fidelity National Information Services (FIS) and Zafin over the past year. These included responsibilities for global product development, R&D, innovation, and operational efficiency for FIS, and oversight for global sales, marketing, communications, delivery, operations, and partnerships for Zafin after joining in 2016.
She is considered an innovator in the fintech space, having been at the forefront of internet banking (IB) as under her leadership the first IB transaction was processed, electronic bill payment became a reality for millions of consumers, and the first instance of check imaging was done at a commercial business.
After accepting the award at the annual gala in New York, Ms. Langer said, “It was a wonderful evening, and I am honored and humbled to be recognized among such a truly exceptional field of female leaders.”
This is not Ms. Langer’s first trip to the awards gala. She was also a finalist and Bronze award winner in the same category in 2015.
"Nancy has shown great leadership in building businesses for growth. We are excited to have Nancy be part of our team," said Al Karim Somji, Zafin founder and CEO. "It is gratifying to see Nancy get the recognition that is so well deserved.”
About Zafin
As a leading financial technology provider, Zafin’s mission is to make banking better for both the customer and the bank. Our award-winning platform, miRevenue, helps banks deepen customer relationships by uniting common customer, product, pricing and billing functions in one integrated solution. Today, financial institutions of all sizes use miRevenue to increase revenue, enhance operational efficiency, streamline regulatory compliance and enable a connected digital banking ecosystem. Each year, our clients trust miRevenue to process billions of transactions for hundreds of millions of their customers across retail banking, cash management, wealth management and custody services. As a proud Canadian company, Zafin’s 100 percent retention rate underscores our proven track record as a trusted partner for our clients. For more information, please visit www.zafin.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005062/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}