ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
PBS unveiled today a strong 2017 winter/spring season lineup that includes the January 15 premiere of the seven-part drama “Victoria” on MASTERPIECE (watch the trailer) about the early years and fraught relationships of the 19th-century teenage queen; the much-anticipated returns of “Sherlock” on MASTERPIECE MYSTERY! on New Year’s Day and the second season of PBS’ original American drama series MERCY STREET (watch the trailer) on January 22. For the first time, PBS is announcing a major new arts strand, LANDMARKS LIVE IN CONCERT, part of GREAT PERFORMANCES, which features performances by Alicia Keys on January 20 and Brad Paisley on January 27. Also in the line-up beginning February 1 is a new NATURE series called SPY IN THE WILD, A NATURE MINISERIES, a John Downer Production for BBC, PBS and THIRTEEN Productions LLC; the three-part, six-hour film “The Great War” airs on AMERICAN EXPERIENCE April 10, as well as the tandem premieres of “Oklahoma City” and “Ruby Ridge” on February 7 and February 14, respectively; AFRICA’S GREAT CIVILIZATIONS from Henry Louis Gates, Jr. starts February 27, AMERICAN MASTERS “Maya Angelou: And Still I Rise” premieres on February 21 and a GERSHWIN PRIZE special honoring Smokey Robinson airs on February 10; and much more.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005313/en/ 
For more information please visit http://to.pbs.org/2fFn343
About PBS
PBS, with nearly 350 member stations, offers all Americans the opportunity to explore new ideas and new worlds through television and online content. Each month, PBS reaches nearly 100 million people through television and nearly 33 million people online, inviting them to experience the worlds of science, history, nature and public affairs; to hear diverse viewpoints; and to take front row seats to world-class drama and performances. PBS’ broad array of programs has been consistently honored by the industry’s most coveted award competitions. Teachers of children from pre-K through 12th grade turn to PBS for digital content and services that help bring classroom lessons to life. PBS’ premier children’s TV programming and its website, pbskids.org, are parents’ and teachers’ most trusted partners in inspiring and nurturing curiosity and love of learning in children. More information about PBS is available at www.pbs.org, one of the leading dot-org websites on the Internet, or by following PBS on Twitter, Facebook or through our apps for mobile devices. Specific program information and updates for press are available at pbs.org/pressroom or by following PBS Pressroom on Twitter.
For images and additional up-to-date information on this and other PBS programs, visit PBS PressRoom at pbs.org/pressroom.
Click here to subscribe to Mobile Alerts for PBS.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005313/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005313/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}