HERNDON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Rusk County Memorial Hospital (RCMH) has selected Harris Healthcare Affinity Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution for its automation and integration of day-to-day accounting and financial activities. Harris Healthcare is a fully integrated, single-provider financial IT solution developed specifically for healthcare facilities.
David Kuehn, RCMH Chief Financial Officer, said, “We are excited to implement a system that is user-friendly and offers a number of advanced features our old system did not provide. With Affinity ERP, we have significantly reduced the number of days to close month end, improved AP turnaround and improved efficiency with less staff time required. We know Affinity ERP will not only provide cost savings, but will also benefit employees and patient care.”
Last month, Harris Healthcare successfully implemented the “Go Live” phase for the General Ledger, Accounts Payable, and Asset Management products on-time and 10% under budget. Materials Management and Budgeting will “Go Live” on December 1st. Cost Accounting, the Human Capital suite and the remainder of Supply Chain Management will be included in upcoming implementation phases. With the purchase and implementation of the entire Affinity ERP product suite, RCMH will have a comprehensive view of the organization, including key performance indicators relating patient care to expenses and cash flow.
RCMH is the fourth hospital to recently select Harris Healthcare in Wisconsin. Chris Sherback, Director of Harris Healthcare ERP Solutions, said, “We are extremely honored to be working with RCMH, and ensuring their financial work flow management is at its best. They are one of many hospitals moving to EPIC for billing and clinical systems, and they came to us because of strong recommendations from their peers who have faced similar challenges.”
With a 30-year history as a global healthcare IT provider, Harris Healthcare envisions bringing improved solutions to Wisconsin’s medical care facilities, and improving healthcare costs throughout the area. Harris Healthcare’s Affinity solutions group will be reaching out to all clients with special offers allowing them to take advantage of this high-impact integrated solution set. Please visit our website for more detail.
About RCMH:
Rusk County Memorial Hospital is a critical access medical center located in Ladysmith, Wis., that comforts, heals and empowers people to be well. In addition to providing medical/surgical care and intensive care, the hospital offers comprehensive surgical services, emergency care, urgent care and transitional care services through the swing bed program. Ancillary services of digital imaging and laboratory are provided, as well as rehabilitative therapies, including cardiac rehabilitation and physical, occupational and speech therapies. The Rusk County Memorial Hospital’s Clinic at Riverside is a provider-based rural health clinic that provides primary care to patients of all ages.
About Harris Healthcare:
The Affinity Solutions group operates as a division of Harris Healthcare, which focuses on bringing together the best healthcare software and making it available and interoperable under one umbrella. Harris Healthcare provides award-winning, proven, flexible solutions that improve the safety, quality and efficiency of patient and also facilitate timely, accurate, and complete revenue management for health systems of any size. We streamline processes, increase productivity and drive satisfaction at all levels. Harris Healthcare supports clients around the world with a staff of over 900 professionals, including the largest staff of clinicians, physicians and nurses in the industry.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006452/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}