SYDNEY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Leading cloud-based customer intelligence platform provider, Vision Critical and global business intelligence and digital media provider, RFi Group, have today announced an agreement to deliver insight communities to the financial services sector in Australia and New Zealand. RFi Group has become a value-added reseller for Vision Critical, delivering insight communities powered by the Vision Critical Sparq platform to financial services providers and their clients.
“Vision Critical and RFi Group are key players in global customer intelligence serving the financial services sector,” said Peter Harris, EVP & Managing Director – Asia Pacific of Vision Critical. “This collaboration with RFi Group will further enable and empower financial services providers in Australia to lead with customer-first intelligence, so they can disrupt the market early and innovate rapidly to stay competitive in the ‘Age of the Customer’.”
Charles Green, RFi Group Founder & Group CEO said; “Along with Vision Critical, RFi Group continues to add value to the decision-making processes across the financial services industry. With the rapid adoption of digital banking and the emergence of fintechs, the sector is seeing significant changes in consumer behavior. Our comprehensive value proposition is designed to allow our clients to continually monitor the changing needs and attitudes of their customer base at a granular level, so they can remain innovative and market leading.”
Powered by Vision Critical’s Sparq software platform, insight communities are secure, confidential online communities composed of an organization’s most trusted stakeholders - its customers, partners and employees - that provide businesses with agile, ongoing insights and feedback, so they can make confident customer-led business decisions.
About RFi GroupRFi Group is a global business intelligence and digital media provider focusing exclusively on financial services. With over 500 clients around the world, RFi Group specialises in data and information gathering, customer based insight generation and business decision support for the world’s leading financial service providers.
For more information, visit www.rfigroup.com.
About Vision CriticalVision Critical provides a cloud-based customer intelligence platform that allows companies to build engaged, secure communities of customers they can use continuously, across the enterprise, for ongoing, real-time feedback and insight. Designed for today’s always-on, social and mobile savvy customer, Vision Critical’s technology helps large, customer-centric enterprises discover what their customers want so they can deliver what they need. Unlike traditional customer research, which is slow, expensive and gathers dust on a shelf, Vision Critical’s customer intelligence platform replaces static data and cumbersome reports with real-time actionable customer intelligence that companies need to build better products, deliver better services and achieve better business outcomes.
For more information, visit www.visioncritical.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006267/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}