SALT LAKE CITY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
sPower, a leading independent renewable energy provider, announced that on November 21, 2016 they were awarded a 25-year PPA with Silicon Valley Power (SVP), the City of Santa Clara’s municipal electric utility, to provide 49.5 megawatts (MW) of wind power.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005364/en/ 
The Sand Hill Wind facilities will be constructed within the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area (APWRA) and are part of repowering efforts by Alameda County. sPower anticipates erecting up to 25 state-of-the-art wind turbines with a commercial operations date before the end of 2020.
“The Altamont Pass is just 40 miles from our service territory,” said Steve Hance, Silicon Valley Power Electric Division Manager. “It’s great that our local community will benefit directly from increased renewable energy and the favorable economics afforded by the Sand Hill Wind project, and also indirectly from the local job creation and generation of new state and local tax revenues.”
“sPower is excited about developing its first wind farm in California, especially given SVP’s initiatives to create a cleaner energy future for the City of Santa Clara’s residents and businesses,” said Ryan Creamer, sPower CEO. “We commend SVP’s outstanding efforts to advance the development of cost-competitive green power sources and look forward to building more California wind projects.”
About sPower: Headquartered in Salt Lake City, with offices in San Francisco, Long Beach and New York City, sPower is a leading independent power producer (IPP) that owns and operates more than 150 utility and commercial distributed electrical generation systems across the U.S. and the UK (1.3GW by 2017). sPower is currently constructing the largest solar project supported by a Contract for Differences (CFD), a 103MW project in CA. To date, sPower has deployed more than $2 billion of capital for its solar and wind projects. With 7.0 gigawatts between operating, construction and pipeline, sPower is actively buying select utility-scale renewable assets in virtually any stage of development in the United States. www.spower.com.
About Silicon Valley Power (SVP): Silicon Valley Power is the trademark adopted for use by the not-for-profit electric municipal utility of Santa Clara, CA serving residents and businesses since 1896. SVP provides power to more than 50,000 customers, including Applied Materials, Intel, Owens Corning, Microsoft and NVIDIA at rates 20 to 45 percent below neighboring communities.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005364/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005364/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}