NEEDHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
PTC (PTC) today announced that CRN®, a brand of The Channel Company, has named PTC to its 2016 Internet of Things 50 list, which recognizes companies whose innovative offerings are helping connect objects, computing devices, infrastructure, data storage, and data analytics to transform and improve the way we work and live.
“The emerging Internet of Things market holds enormous creative potential, with the capacity to touch and streamline nearly every aspect of our daily lives,” said Robert Faletra, CEO of The Channel Company. “CRN’s Internet of Things 50 list celebrates vendors who are exploring this potential with utmost energy and ingenuity. On the very cutting edge of innovation, their offerings are poised to transform the way we live and work with an unprecedented level of interconnectivity. We congratulate each of these vendors on the vision and creativity that has earned them a spot on our 2016 list.”
PTC’s ThingWorx® IoT platform was purpose-built from the ground up for the Internet of Things. ThingWorx delivers rapid application enablement, connectivity, analytics and machine learning capabilities, augmented reality, and integration with leading device clouds. These capabilities combine to deliver a comprehensive IoT technology stack that enables companies to securely connect assets, quickly create applications, and innovate new ways to capture and deliver value.
“Early on, PTC recognized the potential impact of the Internet of Things, and it is exciting to now be recognized for our innovative contribution to the IoT by CRN,” said Kerry Grimes, SVP, worldwide channel sales, PTC. “As the IoT and its impact on both companies, people, and partners becomes more prevalent, many will find value in these types of evaluations and publications to understand and differentiate the IoT market.”
PTC’s ThingWorx platform has also been recently lauded by several independent analyst firms, including BCC Research, Compass Intelligence, Experton Group, Forrester Research, IoT Analytics, and Ventana Research.
The Internet of Things 50 list will be featured in the December issue of CRN and on CRN.com at crn.com/iot50.
Additional Resources
About the Channel Company
The Channel Company enables breakthrough IT channel performance with our dominant media, engaging events, expert consulting and education, and innovative marketing services and platforms. As the channel catalyst, we connect and empower technology suppliers, solution providers and end users. Backed by more than 30 years of unequaled channel experience, we draw from our deep knowledge to envision innovative new solutions for ever-evolving challenges in the technology marketplace. www.thechannelco.com
About PTC (PTC)
PTC has the most robust Internet of Things technology in the world. In 1986 we revolutionized digital 3D design, and in 1998 were first to market with Internet-based PLM. Now our leading IoT and AR platform and field-proven solutions bring together the physical and digital worlds to reinvent the way you create, operate, and service products. With PTC, global manufacturers and an ecosystem of partners and developers can capitalize on the promise of the IoT today and drive the future of innovation.
PTC.com @PTC Blogs
PTC, ThingWorx, and the PTC logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of PTC Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005754/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}