MINNETONKA, Minn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Communications Systems, Inc. (JCS) (“CSI” or the “Company”), a global provider of connectivity infrastructure and services for deployments of broadband networks, today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.04 per common share. The dividend will be payable on January 3, 2017 to shareholders of record as of December 15, 2016.
This marks the 57th consecutive quarter that CSI has paid a dividend to its shareholders.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release are or may be regarded as forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on Communications Systems’ current expectations or beliefs and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual performance, activities, dividend policy, or other plans may vary substantially from those expressed or implied by statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, and other risks and uncertainties affecting the Company’s business. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies are presented in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and, from time to time, in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks. Communications Systems is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
About Communications Systems
Communications Systems, Inc. provides connectivity infrastructure and services for global deployments of broadband networks. Focusing on innovative, cost-effective solutions, CSI provides customers the ability to deliver, manage, and optimize their broadband network services and architecture. From the integration of fiber optics in any application and environment to efficient home voice and data deployments to optimization of data and application access, CSI provides tools for maximum utilization of the network from the edge to the user. With partners and customers in over 50 countries, CSI has built a reputation as a reliable global innovator focusing on quality and customer service.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005316/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}