DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2022" report to their offering.
The telecommunications industry is very multifaceted with large number of players, economic interventionism and continuously evolving business model. The mobile subscription penetration in most of the developed countries has reached more than 100%, and hence the average revenue per user (ARPU) has dropped significantly in the recent years. As a result, the mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) market in developed countries witnessed rapid growth during the recent years.
The discount, cellular M2M, business and media/entertainment segment accounted for more than 50% of the overall MVNO market in 2015. The cellular M2M and roaming segment are expected to witness the fastest growth during the forecast period.
Over the last decade, Western Europe has evolved as the most lucrative market for MVNOs. Germany, the U.K., and France are some of the major MVNO markets in Western Europe. Some of the emerging countries, such as Thailand, Oman, Hungary, Mexico, and Slovakia are expected to witness considerable growth in MVNO market during the forecast period.
Some of the major companies operating in the global mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) market include AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., T-Mobile AG, CITIC Telecom International Holding Limited., Truphone Limited, Telefonica S.A., Virgin Mobile, Tracfone Wireless, Inc., and Lycamobile Group.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Global Mvno Market Size And Forecast (2012-2022)
5. Global Mvno Market, By Geography
6. Competitive Analysis
7. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
8. Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/mgl65r/global_mobile

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005931/en/