EAGLE, Idaho--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
In demonstration of an ongoing commitment to sustainable operations, seven Lamb Weston facilities achieved ENERGY STAR® certification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Lamb Weston (LW) operates 13 facilities in the U.S. which make frozen potato, sweet potato, appetizer, and vegetable products.
Lamb Weston facilities receiving ENERGY STAR® certification perform in the top 25% of similar operations nationwide for energy efficiency. They also meet strict energy efficiency performance levels set by the EPA.
“Achieving ENERGY STAR® certification is representative of the way we operate every day – efficiently and with respect for the environment,” said Trudy Slagle, Manager, Sustainability, for Lamb Weston. “Our teams are always looking for new ways to reduce costs and conserve resources, including energy, and these seven facilities are great examples of what can be achieved with dual focus on business performance and sustainability.”
Lamb Weston’s ENERGY STAR® recipients:
“Improving the energy efficiency of our nation’s industrial facilities is critical to protecting our environment,” said Jean Lupinacci, Chief of the ENERGY STAR® Commercial & Industrial Branch. “From the plant floor to the board room, organizations are leading the way by making their facilities more efficient and earning EPA’s ENERGY STAR® certification.”
ENERGY STAR® was introduced by the EPA in 1992 as a voluntary, market-based partnership to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through energy efficiency. Today, the ENERGY STAR® label can be found on more than 60 different kinds of products, as well as new homes and commercial and industrial buildings that meet strict energy-efficiency specifications. Over the past 20 years, American families and businesses have saved nearly $230 billion on utility bills and prevented more than 1.7 billion metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions with help from ENERGY STAR®.
For more information about ENERGY STAR® certification for industrial facilities, visit www.energystar.gov/plants
ABOUT LAMB WESTONLamb Weston is a leading supplier of frozen potato, sweet potato, appetizer, and vegetable products to restaurants and retailers around the world. For more than 60 years, Lamb Weston has led the industry in innovation, introducing inventive products that simplify back-of-house management for our customers and make eating more delicious for their customers. From the fields where Lamb Weston potatoes are grown to proactive customer partnerships, Lamb Weston always strives for more and never settles. When we look at a potato, we see possibilities.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006538/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}