AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings maintains the following Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority (PRASA) bonds on Rating Watch Negative:
--Approximately $3.3 billion in outstanding senior lien revenue bonds, series A, B, 2012A and 2012B 'CC';
--Approximately $285 million in outstanding revenue refunding bonds, series 2008A and 2008B (guaranteed by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico) 'CC'.
SECURITY
The senior bonds are secured by a gross lien of all authority revenues related to PRASA's combined water and sewer system (the system), as defined in the amended master agreement of trust, senior to all other debt or expenses of the authority. The series 2008A and 2008B bonds are payable from system revenues subordinate to all PRASA obligations except Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (the commonwealth) supported obligations and obligations payable from surplus revenues. The series 2008A and 2008B revenue refunding bonds are further secured by a guaranty of the commonwealth. Currently, no credit is given for the commonwealth guaranty.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
NEGATIVE WATCH MAINTAINED: Maintenance of the Negative Watch continues to reflect that a restructuring of PRASA's debt is probable. PRASA has historically been excluded from discussions of a broader restructuring of commonwealth debt, although PRASA's market access difficulties and strained cash flows heighten the risk of a possible restructuring of its debt. A resolution by the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) Financial Oversight and Management Board (FOMB) to include PRASA as a covered entity under PROMESA further heightens the risk of restructuring.
CASH FLOW CONCERNS REMAIN: PRASA's net cash receipts and existing funds on hand remain insufficient to meet long-term working capital, debt service and other funding requirements. PRASA's financial estimates for fiscals 2017-2026 indicate annual revenue shortfalls of between $287 million to $440 million, including funding for the capital improvement program and assuming no market access.
FISCAL 2015 AUDIT RELEASED: PRASA's most recent audited performance (fiscal year ended June 30, 2015) was weak as Fitch-calculated debt service fell to 0.97x, cash on hand totaled only 20 days and free cash to depreciation was a negative 4%. PRASA's auditor (Kevane Grant Thornton LLP) has also noted that financial difficulties experienced by the authority raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern.
FISCAL 2016 PERFORMANCE REMAINS WEAK: For the 12 months ended June 30, 2016, PRASA estimates that net operating income, excluding $90 million transferred from the rate stabilization fund (RSF), equaled $359 million, down 15% from the prior year on lower revenues affected by severe drought conditions. Resulting debt service coverage on senior lien bonds as calculated by Fitch was 1.36x, including $90 million related to a bank term loan and the $90 million RSF transfer, while total debt service coverage was 1.05x. For the year PRASA also suspended its capital improvement program for lack of funds and has indicated that it currently owes over $100 million in debt to contractors and vendors.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
ANNOUNCEMENT OF DEBT RESTRUCTURING: Any negotiated restructuring resolution would be evaluated for its effect on bondholders. Any restructuring that does not result in full and timely payment of bonds according to the original terms promised, would result in a downgrade to 'C' upon agreement by the required holders and 'D' upon execution.
For additional information, please see Fitch's publication 'Distressed Debt Exchange' dated June 8, 2016, available at www.fitchratings.com.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
Applicable Criteria
Revenue-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 16 Jun 2014)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/750012
U.S. Water and Sewer Revenue Bond Rating Criteria (pub. 30 Nov 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/890402
Additional Disclosures
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016184
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006301/en/