PHOENIX--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Alta Paradise Ridge, a 278-unit luxury community located between Phoenix and Scottsdale, hosted a unique animal-focused fundraiser last week benefitting the Maricopa County Animal Shelter.
Over a hundred people attended the event at the Alta Paradise Ridge clubhouse on Friday, December 2 where they could interact with animals, donate pet supplies and learn about the shelter. The purpose of the event was to raise awareness for rescued and abandoned animals, and give residents and neighbors an opportunity to learn more about pet adoption.
“Alta Paradise Ridge is committed to making a positive impact in our community, and the incredible turnout demonstrates the love for pets and the desire to give back to the places where we live and work,” said Todd Taylor, development director for Wood Partners in Arizona and Nevada. “We are proud to have collaborated with so many great organizations to give these animals better lives.”
Alta Paradise Ridge is a unique and sophisticated community nestled in northern Phoenix. The property is pet friendly and includes a dog park and dog wash. The property opened in April 2016 and is currently leasing its loft-style 1-, 2- and 3-bedroom units.
The event included support, donations and raffle prizes from local organizations including Cox Communications, JB Graphics, Lunchbox Was Salon, Hyatt Gainey Ranch, Bentley’s Biscuits, Protein House, Tattle Tail Trinkets, Funny Bone Photography, Maintenance Supply Headquarters, Bourbon Jacks, BJ’s Restaurant and Brew House, and Elite Restaurant Group. The raffle raised nearly $2,000 for Maricopa County Animal Shelter.
Numerous community members completed adoption applications and several pets were adopted. Hundreds of dollars in pet toys, food and supplies were also donated to the Animal Shelter as part of the event.
At any given time, the Maricopa County Animal Shelter has hundreds of animals in search of loving homes. All donations go directly to the care of its animals in its shelters and its spay and neuter programs, vaccinations and microchip clinics. To learn more about the Maricopa County Animal Shelter, visit www.maricopa.gov/pets.
To learn more about Alta Paradise Ridge or arrange a tour, please visit www.altaparadiseridge.com.
About Wood Partners
Wood Partners is a national real estate company that acquires, develops, constructs and manages high density and mixed-use communities. It ranks consistently among the top five multifamily developers in the country. Through quality construction, responsible land development and intelligent design, our communities reflect the aesthetic and social fabric of the community and provide a luxurious living experience at a fair price. The company has been involved in the acquisition and development of more than 53,000 homes with a combined value of more than $8.3 billion nationwide. The company currently owns more than 75 properties with a combined total of 21,000+ units. Wood Partners has offices in 18 major markets nationwide including Atlanta, Austin, Baltimore, Delray Beach/South Florida, Boston, Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, New York, Southern California, Orlando, Phoenix, Portland, Raleigh-Durham, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington, D.C. To learn more about Wood Partners, please visit our website, WoodPartners.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005466/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}