HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
On December 7th, 2016, Taylor Recovery Center and Taylor Recovery Sober Living are hosting a food and supply drive for "Forgotten Dogs of the Fifth Ward Project”. At this fundraising event we are taking in donations for dog food, toys and other various pet supplies for dogs. This nonprofit organization, Forgotten Dogs of the Fifth Ward Project, helps abused and homeless animals left behind in Houston's own inter city. Taylor Recovery is a sober living community helping drug addicts recover from alcohol and drug addiction. The miracles that we have seen having addicts helping dogs has been amazing and we invite the public to attend this event in order to help us bring both recovering addicts and recovering dogs back to health.
In addition to the immediate physical and emotional benefits, such as exercise, companionship, and unconditional loyalty, this program also provides clients warmth, familiarity and a benign and comforting reminder of their life before rehab. By giving themselves the task of caring for something, clients can reacquaint themselves with the concepts of selflessness and nurturing. Integrating pets and addiction recovery goes far beyond giving clients their own separate living space to maintain and makes them responsible for a life other than their own.
"Dogs help clients rebuild their self-esteem and self-worth while the addicts recover just as much as the addicts can help in a dog's recovery." Says Ryan Davis, Program Director for Taylor Recovery Sober Living. "It really reconnects the feelings of joy and happiness that get short circuited by addiction." Says Constantine Petrou, a counselor at Taylor Recovery Center.
"We are a circle of care and compassion dedicated to saving the lives of the homeless dogs of the 5th Ward in Houston, Texas." Said a Forgotten Dogs representative.
Numerous addiction studies suggest that spending time with a pet can be more beneficial than even opening up to a family member or loved one. This makes sense given how guarded clients with addiction tend to be. They find in their animal, a completely non-judgmental sounding board for their fears, complaints, reservations and troubles. Overall the combination of pets and addiction recovery has been dramatically underutilized, despite its numerous benefits and proven results. Animals have no hidden agenda related to your recovery and no manipulative inclinations; just the biological instinct to bond with their owners and offer support and connection that humans can find literally nowhere else.
Event: December 7th 7:00 - 9:00 PM
Food Drive 7th - 14th of December
Phone: 713-557-8573
Address: 5711 Lavender St, Houston TX 77026
Email: kristi@taylorrecovery.com
Web: www.taylorrecovery.com / www.forgottendogs.org

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006356/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}