BURBANK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
PSI Services LLC (PSI), a worldwide, industry-leading professional testing services provider to corporations, federal and state government agencies, professional associations and certifying bodies, today announced that they have acquired Computer Assisted Testing Service (CATS), an organization that delivers computer-based examinations for organizations involved in licensing and certification testing.
Mark Dennehy, President and CEO of CATS, stated that, “We are excited about joining the PSI family. Having worked alongside PSI in the industry for many years, we have watched closely the exciting growth PSI has undergone, both in clients and products and services. We look forward to working together to add even more value to our clients in the near future.”
“The CATS acquisition supports PSI’s expansion in our federal and certification market segments as we look for strategic opportunities to continue our growth,” said Steve Tapp, President and CEO of PSI. “Both PSI and CATS have a considerable position within the Federal Aviation marketplace. The combined entities will provide focused-innovative product solutions and dedication to quality for the thousands of candidates seeking aviation licensure and certifications. We look forward to partnering with the experienced team at CATS and their clients, as we further our commitment to offering the most robust, full service, end-to-end testing solution in the industry.”
PSI provides various solutions through its multiple business channels including talent assessments (of job-seeking candidates as well as employee development programs), licensure testing and license management services (for government regulatory agencies), and certification credentialing services (for certifying bodies) worldwide. PSI offers clients various solutions to measure, assess and identify the skills, traits and abilities of individuals seeking jobs, licensure or certification credentials.
About CATS
Computer Assisted Testing Service (CATS) is a full service testing company for licensure, certification, assessment, and educational testing programs. CATS offers end-to-end examination services, including fixed and remote computer-based testing, test development and research, and construction of new test item types for a wide range of professions. More information is available at www.catstest.com.
About PSI
PSI Services LLC (PSI) has over 70 years of experience providing worldwide testing solutions to corporations, federal and state government agencies, professional associations and certifying bodies. PSI offers a comprehensive solutions approach from test development to delivery to results processing, including pre-hire employment selection, managerial assessments, licensing and certification tests, license management services and professional services. More information is available at www.psionline.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005189/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}