DALLAS & RICHARDSON, Texas & SPRINGFIELD, Mo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
John Q. Hammons Hotels & Resorts (JQH) today announced that Ben Logan has been hired as the new general manager of the company’s Renaissance Dallas Richardson Hotel located north of downtown Dallas. With 24 years of hospitality experience, including in-depth knowledge of the Dallas/Richardson market, Logan will oversee management of this TripAdvisor® Certificate of Excellence Hall of Fame hotel. The 335-room/suite, AAA Four Diamond property is owned and operated by Springfield, Missouri-based JQH under license from Marriott International, Inc. or one of its affiliates. JQH is a leading private, independent owner and manager of hotels in the United States.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006047/en/ 
“Ben is a natural fit as the new general manager of JQH’s Renaissance Dallas Richardson Hotel,” said Mark Wasiak, JQH’s regional vice president. “Ben has proven experience with upscale, full-service properties; is entrenched in the local market; and is focused on inspiring hotel teams to deliver an exceptional guest experience.”
Prior to joining JQH, Logan served as general manager of the 342-room/suite Hyatt Regency North Dallas in Richardson on behalf of Interstate Hotels & Resorts. Additional general manager assignments for Interstate Hotels & Resorts over his nearly 15 years with the company include the 195-room/suite Hilton Durham Near Duke University in North Carolina and the 100-room/suite Inn at Middletown in Connecticut. His career also includes serving as director of operations at the 271-room/suite Washington Duke Inn & Golf Club in Durham in North Carolina for Carnival Hotels & Resorts. His hospitality experience also encompasses time with Hyatt Hotels & Resorts, including the 515-room/suite Hyatt Regency Reston, the 316-room/suite Hyatt Regency Dulles, both in Virginia, and with the Hyatt National Sales Office in Nebraska. Logan has a Bachelor of Science degree in management from Louisiana Tech University. He is also a certified rooms division executive from the American Hotel & Lodging Association. He is active in the local hospitality and business communities in which he works, including serving in board appointments. Logan’s achievements as a top performer have been recognized throughout his career, including securing Interstate Hotel of the Year (2013) and Interstate Finance Team of the Year (2009 and 2008).
“I have always admired JQH as a hotel company to watch. I am so pleased to have the opportunity to work for an organization that helped to shape the hospitality industry and that continues to cultivate innovation,” Logan said. “I look forward to leveraging my experience and passion for the hospitality industry to encourage our hotel teams to work collaboratively to ensure guests have a fluid experience from arrival to departure.”
About Renaissance Dallas Richardson Hotel
The 12-story Renaissance Dallas Richardson Hotel at 900 E. Lookout Drive in Richardson, Texas, is conveniently located off U.S. Highway 75. The stylish hotel is central to downtown Dallas and just south of the new 186-acre CityLine master-planned, mixed-use development of business, urban residential, retail, restaurants and entertainment, including 2.6 million square feet of office space. The hotel’s location on the DART Rail Galatyn Park Station allows for convenient and fast transit options. The pet-friendly, non-smoking hotel welcomes guests with a stunning atrium-style garden and expansive 30,000 square feet of flexible event facilities, including 19 meeting rooms. The hotel’s 335 rooms/suites offer luxurious bedding, bathrobes, premium cable, microwave oven, and wireless and wired Internet access. Guests can enjoy a swimming pool, whirlpool and complimentary 24-hour business and fitness centers. Plenty of on-site dining options are available with R restaurant for eclectic cuisine, Before 5 coffee shop for Starbucks® coffee, and After 5 lounge for an innovative cocktail. For more information, call (972) 367-2000, go to www.marriott.com/DALRD, or connect with the hotel on Facebook.
About John Q. Hammons Hotels & Resorts
Springfield, Missouri-based John Q. Hammons Hotels & Resorts (JQH) is a leading private, independent owner and manager of hotels in the United States, representing brands such as: Marriott, Hilton, Embassy Suites by Hilton, Sheraton, IHG, Chateau on the Lake Resort / Spa & Convention Center, and Plaza Hotels Collection. With a portfolio of 35 hotels representing approximately 8,500 guest rooms/suites in 16 states, JQH’s properties are dominant in their markets. Founded on the extraordinary vision of John Q. Hammons and built on his continued legacy of excellence spanning more than 50 years, JQH has become one of the most recognized and award-winning companies in the hospitality industry. Built to be the best, JQH continues to set the standard in hospitality management and hotel development. Go to www.jqhhotels.com for more information, or connect with JQH on Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006047/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006047/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}