DETROIT--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Axalta Coating Systems (AXTA), a leading global supplier of liquid and powder coatings, is excited to announce that it is the Presenting Sponsor of the 2017 North American International Auto Show (NAIAS) Charity Preview for the second consecutive year.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005477/en/ 
The NAIAS Charity Preview, to be held on Friday, January 13, 2017, at the Cobo Center in Detroit, is consistently the largest single night fundraiser in the United States, having raised more than $5.2 million last year. Proceeds directly benefit a wide range of children's charities including The Boys & Girls Clubs of Southeastern Michigan, Boys Hope Girls Hope of Detroit, The Children’s Center, Children’s Hospital of Michigan Foundation, Judson Center, Detroit PAL, March of Dimes, and the DADA Charitable Foundation Fund – a fund of the Community Foundation for southeast Michigan.
“Charity Preview at the North American International Auto Show is known around the country for its fancy gowns, snazzy tuxedoes and elaborate parties, but the tremendous impact attendees and sponsors have on the lives of so many needy children remains the main star of the evening,” said Sam Slaughter, 2017 NAIAS Chairman. “We’re very appreciative to have Axalta return as the Presenting Sponsor for this evening of giving and celebration.”
“Axalta’s first-year sponsorship of the 2016 Charity Preview was a great way to support our community,” said Steven Markevich, Axalta’s Executive Vice President and President of Transportation Coatings and Greater China. “This time, we expect to make our presence even brighter as we partner with the NAIAS to benefit the children in our community. The Axalta team again looks forward to bringing a little color to this black-tie affair as we celebrate our Automotive Color of the Year 2017 and build on our mission of being a trusted partner in helping automakers develop the appearance and character of their vehicle brands.”
Axalta will participate in many festivities during the Auto Show January 8 through 22. On Tuesday, January 10, 2017, Axalta will support the annual EyesOn Design program that benefits the Detroit Institute of Ophthalmology. Axalta is also sponsor of the Cobo Center’s first NAIAS Coloring Contest. Children, ages 14 and under, are invited to color an Axalta concept car for the chance to win prizes. Winners will be selected daily, and submissions will be displayed in the shape of Axalta’s logo on a wall inside Cobo Center.
2017 NAIAS Important Dates:
The Gallery – Saturday, January 7, 2017AutoMobili-D – Sunday-Thursday, January 8-12, 2017Press Preview – Monday-Tuesday, January 9-10, 2017Industry Preview – Wednesday-Thursday, January 11-12, 2017Charity Preview – Friday, January 13, 2017Public Show – Saturday-Sunday, January 14-22, 2017
About NAIAS
Now in its 28th year as an international event, the NAIAS is among the most prestigious auto shows in the world, providing unparalleled access to the automotive products, people and ideas that matter most - up close and in one place. Administered by Executive Director Rod Alberts, the NAIAS is one of the largest media events in North America, and the only auto show in the United States to earn an annual distinguished sanction of the Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d'Automobiles, the Paris-based alliance of automotive trade associations and manufacturers from around the world. For more information, visit naias.com.
About Axalta Coating Systems – Celebrating 150 Years in the Coatings Industry
Axalta is a leading global company focused solely on coatings and providing customers with innovative, colorful, beautiful and sustainable solutions. From light OEM vehicles, commercial vehicles and refinish applications to electric motors, buildings and pipelines, our coatings are designed to prevent corrosion, increase productivity and enable the materials we coat to last longer. With 150 years of experience in the coatings industry, the approximately 12,800 people of Axalta continue to find ways to serve our more than 100,000 customers in 130 countries better every day with the finest coatings, application systems and technology. For more information visit axaltacoatingsystems.com and follow us @Axalta on Twitter and on LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005477/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005477/en/
 .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} ;}