MCLEAN, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
TEGNA Inc. (TGNA) president and CEO Gracia Martore was honored tonight with a CEO Lifetime Achievement Award from the Washington Business Journal. Martore was presented the honor at an awards dinner at the Watergate Hotel in Washington, DC.
The Washington Business Journal editorial team selected Martore for her “exceptional efforts leading TEGNA during its 2015 separation of Gannett.” In September 2016, Martore announced she would retire as president and CEO upon the close of the announced spin-off of Cars.com into a publicly traded company. The deal is expected to close in the first half of 2017.
“Gracia’s commitment, vision, leadership and work ethic are second to none and a driving force behind the transformation of this company,” said Marge Magner, chairman of the Board, TEGNA. “She has consistently had her finger on the pulse of the industry and created opportunities for success by remaining focused on a strategy of innovation and growth. Her impact on this company is immeasurable and her legacy will be long-lasting. We applaud the Washington Business Journal for recognizing her many achievements as president and CEO.”
Martore became president and CEO of TEGNA (then Gannett) in October 2011 and helped grow the nation’s largest local media company. Under Martore’s leadership, Gannett doubled the company’s broadcast portfolio and acquired full ownership of Cars.com. Martore led the separation of Gannett into two publicly traded companies in 2015: TEGNA, a broadcasting and digital company and new Gannett, which retained the name Gannett Co., Inc. and includes publishing properties and affiliated digital assets.
Martore joined Gannett in 1985 as assistant treasurer. She became a vice president in the Treasury group in 1993 and added investor relations duties in 1995. She was named treasurer and vice president, investor relations in 1998. She was promoted to senior vice president of finance in addition to her treasurer’s responsibilities in 2001. In 2003, Martore became senior vice president and chief financial officer and was appointed to Gannett’s Management Committee. In 2005, Martore became executive vice president and CFO. In 2010, she was named president and chief operating officer and on October 6, 2011, was named president and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to joining Gannett, she worked for 12 years in the banking industry.
Martore has won numerous business and industry honors for her leadership. In 2015, Martore was named a Giant of Broadcasting by Library of American Broadcasting and the IRTS Foundation. She was also named one of the 50 most influential Virginians by Virginia Business Magazine. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, she was named one of the “50 Most Powerful Women in Business” by Fortune Magazine. Following her selection as Gannett’s CEO in 2011, Martore was cited by Forbes in a review of the world’s most powerful women and, in 2012, she was named to Forbes’ “100 Most Powerful Women” list. Martore also was named on Variety’s Women’s Impact List 2013 and one of Washington’s 100 Most Powerful Women by Washingtonian Magazine. Institutional Investor magazine named Martore one of the best CFOs in America and ranked her the Best CFO in America in the publishing and advertising agencies category for three years in a row (2004-2006). The Washington Post also named Martore one of the top 10 female executives at major companies in the Washington region. In 2006 she was named CFO of the Year by Virginia Business Magazine.
Martore serves on the board of directors of TEGNA Inc., The Associated Press, FM Global and WestRock Company. In October 2014, she was elected to the Board of Trustees for The Paley Center for Media. Martore is a graduate of Wellesley College with a double major in history and political science. While there, she was named a Wellesley Scholar for academic excellence.
Martore and her husband, Joseph, have two children.
About TEGNA
TEGNA Inc. (TGNA) is comprised of a dynamic portfolio of media and digital businesses that provide content that matters and brands that deliver. TEGNA reaches more than 90 million Americans and delivers highly relevant, useful and smart content, when and how people need it, to make the best decisions possible. TEGNA Media includes 46 television stations and is the largest independent station group of major network affiliates in the top 25 markets, reaching approximately one-third of all television households nationwide. TEGNA Digital is comprised of Cars.com, the leading online destination for automotive consumers, CareerBuilder, a global leader in human capital solutions, and other powerful brands such as G/O Digital and Cofactor. For more information, visit www.TEGNA.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006207/en/