Net migration to the U.K. rose to a near-record in the year prior to the Brexit vote.
Those coming to Britain to live or study for a minimum of one year outnumbered those leaving by 335,000 in the 12 months through June, the Office for National Statistics in London said on Thursday. That compared with 326,000 in the year through March and was just off the all-time-high 336,000 seen a year ago. Net migration from other European Union nations hit a record 189,000.
“It is too early to say what effect, if any, the EU referendum has had on long-term international migration,” Nicola White, head of international migration statistics at the ONS, said in a statement. “There does not, however, appear to have been any significant impact during the run-up to the vote.”
More from Bloomberg.com: OPEC Confounds Skeptics, Agrees to First Oil Cuts in 8 Years
Prime Minister Theresa May has made controlling immigration a key priority after Britons voted to leave the EU in the June 23 referendum. 
As her government prepares to trigger formal departure talks by the end of March, May has reiterated a pledge made by her predecessor, David Cameron, to reduce annual net migration to below 100,000. The figures rose over the course of Cameron’s premiership, when May was in charge of immigration policy as home secretary.
Businesses have expressed concern that ending free movement of people from the EU could make it hard to fill jobs currently done by foreigners in industries from construction to hospitality.
Thursday’s figures showed increases in both immigration and emigration. Immigration from the EU rose to a record 284,000, just 5,000 below the inflow from non-EU nations.
The latest period saw increases in the number of asylum seekers and refugees, and immigration of Bulgarian and Romanian citizens “continues the upward trend seen over the last few years,” White said. “Romania was the most common country of previous residence. The main reason people are coming to the U.K. is for work, and there has been a significant increase in people looking for work particularly from the EU.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Goldman Says Trump's Presidency Will Benefit Stocks in Almost Every Sector
More from Bloomberg.com
Read U.K. Net Migration Hits Near-Record in Year Before Brexit Vote on bloomberg.com