KIRKLAND, Washington--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today, the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG) announced speakers for its official Consumer Technology Association (CTA)™ conference program, “An IoT for Everyone,” on January 7, 2017. The free-to-attend track brings together industry leaders who are focused on delivering a seamless, effortless Internet of Things (IoT) for creators and consumers alike.
“Creators and consumers know and trust Bluetooth as the global wireless standard for connecting their products to the broader Internet of Things, simply and securely. Since its inception, Bluetooth has delighted users and led to more wireless connectivity in our lives – from novel use cases to life-saving and life-changing innovations. And you see it first hand and on full display every year at CES,” said Katy Scheck, Director of Marketing, Bluetooth SIG. “Bluetooth, with more than 30,000 member companies, is uniquely suited to bring together industry leaders to foster discussion and share ideas around a collaborative, accessible IoT.”
Influencers, companies, and technologies shaping the IoT will come together and explore how to build an IoT that puts the consumer first, creates open collaboration, and breaks down barriers to innovation. Three panel sessions include:
For more details about the track and to register online, visit http://www.ces.tech/Conference/What-to-Expect/Conference-Tracks/An-IoT-for-Everyone.aspx.
Bluetooth technology plays a crucial role in consumer electronics, empowering users with the simplicity and magic to experience their technology without the limitation of wires. With the introduction of the low energy feature, Bluetooth delivers the convenience and benefits of wireless connectivity into every aspect of our lives, from audio to wearables, home automation, health, and more. In 2017, Bluetooth will further transform the IoT experience with Bluetooth 5, opening more possibilities, more markets, more interoperability, and more accessibility than ever.
Also at CES, Bluetooth will showcase the latest technology innovations like mesh at its Discover Blue event and celebrate advancements in Bluetooth technology at the Bluetooth 5 Launch Party. For media and analysts interested in attending the Discover Blue event on January 4, please contact candice@ink-pr.com. For member companies interested in attending the celebration event on January 5, please contact events@bluetooth.com. For more information about Bluetooth at CES, follow us on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn.
About Bluetooth® Wireless Technology
Bluetooth is the global wireless standard for simple, secure connectivity. Propelled by a global community of more than 30,000 companies, Bluetooth serves to unify, harmonize, and drive innovation in the vast range of connected devices all around us. Through collective creation and shared technical standards, Bluetooth simplifies, secures and enriches the technology experience of users worldwide.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005167/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}