MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Infer Inc., a leading predictive sales and marketing platform that helps companies win more customers, today announced several enhancements to its product portfolio. The latest improvements to Infer Glance, a sales and account intelligence application, as well as Infer’s new predictive behavior scoring for Pardot, reflect the company’s strategy to continue deepening integrations with other enterprise systems. Infer’s open architecture makes it easier than ever for sales reps and marketers to infuse predictive intelligence into their decision-making in order to grow revenue more quickly.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005319/en/ 
“The significant product improvements we’ve made in 2016 reflect how we’re helping businesses reimagine automation through data science,” said Vik Singh, CEO and co-founder of Infer. “The market for AI solutions is rapidly expanding, and Infer fuels predictive adoption by serving as a guide that intelligently and continuously identifies revenue whitespace in a company’s funnel. In just a few years, I’m confident that every modern enterprise with a CRM system will also be leveraging predictive analytics and AI to supercharge its revenue growth.”
Infer Glance Sales Intelligence Powers More Productive Conversations
Businesses of all sizes, such as AdRoll, AppDynamics, Bitly, Druva and Nutanix, leverage Infer Glance to power the sales intelligence layer in their martech stack. It reveals unique prospect attributes and analytics from Infer’s predictive models directly within a company’s Salesforce CRM interface, giving sales reps the most complete view of each contact or account at their fingertips. Today, the company is adding new insights into “similar accounts” for every lead, contact, account or opportunity. This functionality leverages Infer’s sophisticated data science to analyze a specific business-to-business (B2B) prospect and instantly display its direct competitors that are already existing customers. With this visibility, sales reps can craft more personalized prospecting messages that include compelling case studies and other highly targeted assets.
Infer Behavior Scoring for Pardot Dramatically Increases Sales and Marketing Impact
Infer also deepened its marketing automation integrations by launching predictive behavior scoring for Pardot, with early adopters at PlanGrid, Social Tables and UserVoice. Already available for Marketo and Oracle Eloqua, Infer’s behavior scoring uses the most advanced data mining in the industry to model every snapshot of a prospect’s behavior. This capability helps companies accurately prioritize B2B deals that are likely to close within a set time period (i.e. the next three weeks). With the addition of Infer behavioral models, Pardot users can now benefit from more of the platform’s features, such as account-based behavior scoring, lead-to-account matching and top event and activity dashboards. All of this functionality advances a company’s account-based sales and marketing strategy by allowing teams to prioritize the best-fit accounts, tailor personalized outreach and engage at the right time.
“Infer’s easy-to-use predictive intelligence is the brains of our stack. Its actionable insights help us identify, prioritize and convert more customers faster, while giving our sales and marketing teams the tools they need to be successful,” said Connor Fee, chief operations officer at UserVoice. “With Infer behavior scoring for Pardot, we’ve increased our sales efficiencies and created a data-driven definition of a marketing-qualified-lead.”
Infer’s Rapid Product Enhancements Propel Predictive Adoption and Best Practices
In 2016, the predictive sales and marketing category saw a marked shift towards mainstream adoption. According to Gartner’s 2016 Digital Marketing and Advertising Hype Cycle1, “As all forms of marketing look for greater efficiency and effectiveness, predictive analytics are rapidly gaining the attention of advanced marketers.” Best-in-class businesses such as Bitly, Nutanix, Okta and Pandora are just a few of the predictive innovators that make Infer’s customer community the largest in its industry. For example, after implementing Infer Predictive Scoring, Shoretel boosted conversion rates for its largest category of leads by 8x and its overall conversion rate by thirty-eight percent.
Infer continues to invest in its open ecosystem and bring new, powerful products to market. The company extended its award-winning platform this year through new third-party integrations and connectors for Microsoft Power BI, Microsoft Dynamics 365, Marketo Insights, Oracle Eloqua, Pardot, Salesforce and Google Analytics. Furthermore, Infer released several new products to general availability, including the AI-powered Infer Profile Management, Infer Glance and Account-Based Behavior Scoring. Finally, the company rolled out regular user experience and reporting enhancements across its product portfolio, including updates to its platform interface, Salesforce reporting package and Marketo connector.
About Infer
Founded in 2010, Infer delivers a predictive-first platform that helps companies win more customers. It leverages proven data science to rapidly model the untapped data sitting in enterprises, along with thousands of signals from the web. Infer has the largest customer base in its category, and more 5-star ratings than any other predictive vendor on G2 Crowd. Customers include several large enterprises and numerous high growth companies like AdRoll, Cloudera, New Relic, Tableau, Xactly and Zendesk. Headquartered in Mountain View, California, Infer is funded by leading investors, including Redpoint Ventures, Andreessen Horowitz, Social+Capital Partnership, Sutter Hill Ventures and Nexus Venture Partners.
Additional Resources
1 Gartner, Inc. “Digital Marketing and Advertising Hype Cycle” by Andrew Frank, Mike McGuire, July 15, 2016

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005319/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005319/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}