SAN FRANCISCO & REDWOOD CITY, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Digital intelligence leader New Relic, Inc. (NEWR) and Sumo Logic, the leading cloud-native, machine data analytics service, today launched a new partnership in order to combine machine data analytics with application and infrastructure performance data in New Relic Insights’ powerful analytics and dashboarding platform. The integration is designed to help joint customers use the New Relic Digital Intelligence Platform for visualizing the impact of software performance on customer experience and business outcomes.
New Relic provides detailed performance metrics across your digital business - customer experience, application performance, and infrastructure - in real-time, along with powerful analytic tools providing a single source for the visualization and analysis of your software’s performance. Sumo Logic provides the leading service that turns machine data, structured and unstructured, into continuous intelligence, helping organizations more effectively build, run and secure modern applications and infrastructure. The combination of Sumo Logic machine data analytics with New Relic’s full-stack visibility would provide joint customers with a complete picture of what’s happening with their users, applications, and instances.
Both companies also now offer products on the new AWS Marketplace SaaS Subscriptions offering. The marketplace makes it even easier for Amazon Web Services (AWS) customers to have deep, real-time visibility into their dynamic cloud and hybrid infrastructure with New Relic Infrastructure and Sumo Logic, by having unified billing through their existing AWS account.
“Sumo Logic and New Relic share a vision for how to help companies thrive in the digital era,” said Ramin Sayar, CEO of Sumo Logic. “Aligning and integrating the two leading cloud-native offerings makes perfect sense as we provide a new model of analytics based on real-time intelligence. Our joint customers can better manage their modern applications with a view that traverses the client all the way down into the infrastructure.”
“New Relic and Sumo Logic together would offer the perfect solution for companies to get a complete view of their digital business, all from the cloud,” said John Gray, senior vice president of business development, New Relic. “With the flexibility of our platform, customers would be able to create nearly any view of the data that Sumo Logic collects via flexible and powerful dashboards.”
About New Relic
New Relic is a leading digital intelligence company, delivering full-stack visibility and analytics with more than 14,000 paid business accounts. The New Relic Digital Intelligence Platform provides actionable insights to drive digital business results. Companies of all sizes trust New Relic to monitor application and infrastructure performance so they can quickly resolve issues, and improve digital customer experiences. Learn more at newrelic.com.
About Sumo Logic
Sumo Logic is a secure, cloud-native, machine data analytics service, delivering real-time, continuous intelligence from structured, semi-structured and unstructured data across the entire application lifecycle and stack. More than 1,000 customers around the globe rely on Sumo Logic for the analytics and insights to build, run and secure their modern applications and cloud infrastructures. With Sumo Logic, customers gain a multi-tenant, service-model advantage to accelerate their shift to continuous innovation, increasing competitive advantage, business value and growth.
Founded in 2010, Sumo Logic is a privately held company based in Redwood City, CA and is backed by Accel Partners, DFJ, Greylock Partners, IVP, Sequoia Capital and Sutter Hill Ventures. For more information, visit www.sumologic.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains “forward-looking” statements, as that term is defined under the federal securities laws, including but not limited to statements regarding the benefits of New Relic products and the company’s activities with Sumo Logic, such as features and other events related to potential future product and feature offerings. The achievement or success of the matters covered by such forward-looking statements are based on New Relic’s current assumptions, expectations, and beliefs and are subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and changes in circumstances that may cause New Relic’s actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. Further information on factors that could affect New Relic’s financial and other results and the forward-looking statements in this press release is included in the filings New Relic makes with the SEC from time to time, including in New Relic’s most recent Form 10-Q, particularly under the captions “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Copies of these documents may be obtained by visiting New Relic’s Investor Relations website at http://ir.newrelic.com or the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. New Relic assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Social Media Links: Facebook | Twitter | YouTube | LinkedIn
New Relic is a registered trademark of New Relic, Inc.
All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005505/en/