LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
A new study from Expedia® Media Solutions, the advertising sales division of Expedia, Inc., and Luth Research uncovers the booking habits for bleisure travelers, or business travelers who extend their trip with leisure travel and activities. Unveiled today at the annual Expedia Partner Conference, the Profile of the American Bleisure Traveler study provides a view of the bleisure traveler and offers actionable insights that will help travel marketers understand and influence this desirable segment of the travel market. Overall, the study found that 43 percent of all business trips, across domestic and international destinations, are bleisure trips. In general bleisure travelers often have compressed and complex purchase patterns and are influenced by a variety of factors, including trip location, sightseeing and activities in destination, and trip proximity to the weekend.
The research found that bleisure travelers tend to be frequent business travelers, as 32 percent travel for work once or twice a month, and 71 percent of business trips are two to three nights in duration. When looking at international business travel, the prevalence of bleisure increases to 52 percent, which shows that trips abroad may impact the likelihood of bleisure travel bookings. Bleisure trips are also a good opportunity to save on travel expenses, as 66 percent of bleisure travelers agreed that they tend to spend more money on leisure activities because of the money they saved on travel.
Breakdown of a Bleisure Trip
Converting to Bleisure
Dynamic Destinations
Research Roundup
The Search for Bleisure Travel
“Bleisure trip research and planning happens in such a short window of time, so it’s important for marketers to understand the factors that influence the decision making process for business travelers,” said Monya Mandich, senior director of global marketing at Expedia Media Solutions. “The findings show that the destination, local activities and travel costs are leading factors in whether or not a business trip is extended for leisure, giving destination marketing organizations and hoteliers a powerful opportunity to target business travelers with deals and information that will help inspire bleisure travel and drive incremental revenue.”
To view the full study please visit: http://bit.ly/bleisure-traveler
About Expedia Media Solutions
Formed in 2007, Expedia Media Solutions is dedicated to building online and offline media partnerships for travel and non-travel brand advertisers and to enable them to leverage the unique media value of Expedia’s network of leading travel brands and global points of sale. Expedia Media Solutions is a division of Expedia, Inc. For more information, visit www.advertising.expedia.com.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. (EXPE) is the world’s largest online travel company, with an extensive brand portfolio that includes leading online travel brands, such as:
For corporate and industry news and views, visit us at www.expediainc.com or follow us on Twitter @expediainc.
Trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners. © 2016 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-50

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005416/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}