BOULDER, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Boomtown Accelerator, which nurtures selected startups through a 12-week mentoring program, today announced their Fall 2016 teams that will take the Boulder Theater stage this evening at 6 p.m. to present their companies at Demo Day.
This fall’s Boomtown cohort includes seven startups working to address a wide variety of business demands through innovation. Through participation in Boomtown’s demanding and thorough accelerator program, these startups were able to gain access to the tools they need most in the early stages.
In an effort to reach out and help foster innovation at an earlier stage, Boomtown selected two student teams not involved in the current cohort to experience presenting at Demo Day. Teams from the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business and the University of Colorado at Boulder will present alongside the current Boomtown graduates.
“During each session, I am in awe at both the innovation and unbelievable hard work every team demonstrates throughout the program,” said Toby Krout, co-founder and executive director of Boomtown. “We are immensely proud of all seven companies and are pleased to add the student teams to the presentations and look forward to seeing what they’ve been developing.”
Demo Day allows companies to present their ideas to potential investors, strategic partners and the general public. The Boomtown companies being showcased include the six cohort teams and one team, Grownetics, who has participated in Boomtown’s connectivity lab:
The invited student teams presenting are:
About Boomtown
Based in Boulder, Colo., Boomtown aims to discover and support promising Internet, mobile, software, Internet of Things (IoT) and Healthtech startups. Boomtown is currently in its seventh tech and second Healthtech classes and has graduated more than 50 companies since its founding in 2013. For more information, visit www.boomtownaccelerator.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006531/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}