NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today, CCM issued a call to action to inspire youth teams across North America to play an active role in their communities during the holiday season, and will reward them for doing so through CCM Assists.
Inspired by the good deed of New York City native Dylan Gallagher, 12, who has been collecting used equipment to assist Ice Hockey in Harlem, CCM donated over $20,000 worth of brand-new sticks, skates and helmets to the non-profit organization. Ice Hockey in Harlem has been providing hockey instruction, coaching and games free of charge for kids in Harlem since 1987. The donation stems from CCM Assists, a powerful social campaign that underlines CCM’s commitment to communities.
Between December 1, 2016 and December 31, 2016, CCM Assists will encourage players to volunteer and do good deeds in their communities. Players will be asked to share images/videos with a short description of their “assist” in the community via Twitter, Instagram or Facebook. Participants will be asked to use the hashtags #CCMAssists and #Entry to enter their submissions.
In early January, CCM will randomly select five participants, and will reward the winners with top of the line CCM hockey sticks for his or her entire team – or another team of his or her choice.
“CCM understands that hockey is a community sport,” said Sean Williams, Vice-President Global Marketing and North American Sales for CCM. “We hope that CCM Assists will encourage players to get involved at a local level and pay it forward this holiday season.”
“We are so grateful to Dylan Gallagher and CCM for providing us with great new equipment,” said John Sanful, Executive Director, Ice Hockey in Harlem. “It never ceases to amaze me how wonderful and generous the hockey community is. Today’s donations by CCM will enable us to sustain our mission to improve the social and academic well-being of the kids in our community, utilizing hockey as the conduit. As a program director of a non-profit, I fully understand the need to galvanize people to donate. I encourage all kids to do good in their community and participate in CCM Assists.”
For rules and regulations, visit www.unbounce.com/ccm-assists.
About CCM Hockey
CCM Hockey, a subsidiary of the adidas Group, is headquartered in Montreal. With operations in Canada, the United States and Europe, the company is the world's largest designer, manufacturer and marketer of hockey equipment and related apparel. CCM Hockey equips more professional hockey players than any other company, including superstars like Sidney Crosby, Connor McDavid and John Tavares. CCM Hockey is also the official outfitter of the National Hockey League, the American Hockey League, the Canadian Hockey League, and several NCAA and national teams. For more info, visit: www.ccmhockey.com.
About Ice Hockey in Harlem
Ice Hockey in Harlem’s mission is to improve the social and academic well-being of children from the Harlem community. Ice Hockey in Harlem offers programming that allow children in our community to take advantage of the educational and athletic opportunities through participation in youth sports. Through participation in ice hockey, students learn the fundamentals of the game while gaining a greater understanding of team sports and the importance of an active lifestyle.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005971/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}