PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Comcast Corporation and the United States Olympic Committee announced today that Comcast has signed an agreement to serve as an Official Partner of the USOC through 2020, which includes the 2018 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games in PyeongChang, South Korea, and the 2020 Games in Tokyo.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005181/en/ 
“Bringing the Olympic and Paralympic Games to America is an honor and a privilege, and I’m especially proud that our brand will now be aligned with the Olympic rings in the U.S., the U.S. teams themselves, and the qualities they represent,” said Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Comcast Corporation. “Our entire company comes together – combining the incredible storytelling of NBCUniversal and the technology of Comcast – to deliver something truly special to millions of people. Our new partnership with the USOC further extends our support of Team USA, and we look forward to creating new and wonderful Olympic experiences for years to come.”
“We are thrilled to welcome Comcast into the USOC family of partners and know this relationship will have a significant impact on the Olympic and Paralympic movements in the United States,” said Scott Blackmun, USOC CEO. “Comcast’s support of the USOC, coupled with an unparalleled ability to connect fans of Team USA with engaging content, represents a great opportunity, and we can’t wait to get started.”
For the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, NBCUniversal presented an unprecedented 6,755 hours of programming across 11 linear networks as well as on NBCOlympics.com and the NBC Sports app. NBCU’s primetime presentation averaged a Total Audience Delivery of 27.5 million daily viewers, NBC won all 17 nights of primetime and scored the most dominant Olympic Games on record versus broadcast-network competition among key advertiser-coveted demographics.
Comcast also built a Rio 2016 destination on its Xfinity X1 platform that combined all live TV and online streaming coverage — along with athlete profiles, stats and on demand content — into one integrated NBC Olympics dashboard that was searchable through the X1 voice remote. As a result, live plus same- day Olympic primetime ratings among adults 18-49 were 27 percent higher in X1 households than the rest of the country.
Comcast NBCUniversal holds the U.S. media rights to the Olympic Games through 2032.
The agreement allows for the Team USA marks to be used in advertising and marketing for the Comcast, Xfinity, and Comcast Business brands and makes Comcast the official Internet, video distribution, wireless, home security, and business services provider for the 2018 and 2020 U.S. Olympic and Paralympic teams.
About Comcast Corporation
Comcast Corporation (CMCSA) is a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. Comcast Cable is one of the nation's largest video, high-speed Internet and phone providers to residential customers under the XFINITY brand and also provides these services to businesses. NBCUniversal operates news, entertainment and sports cable networks, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, television production operations, television station groups, Universal Pictures and Universal Parks and Resorts. Visit www.comcastcorporation.com for more information.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005181/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005181/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}