MILWAUKEE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Rockwell Automation, the world’s largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, proudly announced that it received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBT workplace equality, administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Rockwell Automation joins the ranks of 517 major U.S. businesses which also earned top marks this year.
“We are proud of our 100 percent HRC score for a fifth year in a row, demonstrating our leadership and commitment to our employees and community,” said Blake Moret, president and CEO, Rockwell Automation. “Our mission to improve the quality of life by making the world more productive and sustainable starts within our own company, and we are committed to fostering a safe and equitable environment for all of our employees to do their best work.”
The 2017 CEI rated 1,043 businesses in the report, which evaluates LGBTQ–related policies and practices including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the LGBTQ community. Rockwell Automation’s efforts in satisfying all of the CEI’s criteria results in a 100 percent ranking and the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality.
For more information on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index, or to download a free copy of the report, visit www.hrc.org/cei.
The Human Rights Campaign Foundation is the educational arm of America’s largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people. HRC envisions a world where LGBTQ people are embraced as full members of society at home, at work and in every community.
Rockwell Automation, Inc. (ROK), the world’s largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable. Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wis., Rockwell Automation employs approximately 22,000 people serving customers in more than 80 countries.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006328/en/
 .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}