STOCKHOLM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Funds advised by Axcel A/S (“Axcel”) and KIRKBI Invest A/S (“KIRKBI”) have sold 3,400,258 and 599,742 shares respectively in Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S (“Nordic Waterproofing”) through an accelerated bookbuilding to Swedish and international institutional investors at a price of SEK 82 per share (“the Placing”).
Axcel’s current holding amounts to 6,800,680 shares and KIRKBI’s current holding amounts to 1,199,514 shares, representing 28.2% and 5.0% respectively of the total number of shares and votes in Nordic Waterproofing.
Following the Placing, Axcel and KIRKBI owns 3,400,422 and 599,772 shares respectively in Nordic Waterproofing, representing 14.1% and 2.5% of the total number of shares and votes in Nordic Waterproofing. Subject to customary exceptions or obtaining consent from ABG Sundal Collier AB and Carnegie Investment Bank AB, Axcel and KIRKBI have agreed to a lock-up period until publication of the next interim report, which is expected to be published on 14 February 2017, in relation to their remaining shares in Nordic Waterproofing.
ABG Sundal Collier and Carnegie are acting as joint bookrunners in connection with the Placing.
Moelis & Company UK LLP is acting as independent financial advisor to Axcel in connection with the Placing.
About Nordic WaterproofingNordic Waterproofing, in its current form, was established in 2011 by Axcel, by means of a merger of the Swedish and Danish waterproofing subsidiaries of Trelleborg AB’s and Lemminkäinen Oy's roof installation businesses. Today, Nordic Waterproofing is one of the leading providers in the waterproofing market in northern Europe. The Company provides high-quality products and solutions for waterproofing in Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, the United Kingdom and Germany. In Finland and in Denmark, through part-owned franchise companies, the Company also provides installation services. The Company markets its products and solutions under nine brands, all with long heritage, most of which are among the most established and well-recognized brands in waterproofing in their respective markets, such as Mataki, Trebolit, Phønix Tag Materialer, Kerabit, Nortett and SealEco. Nordic Waterproofing is listed in the Mid Cap segment on Nasdaq Stockholm with the stock ticker NWG.
For more information about Nordic Waterproofing, visit www.nordicwaterproofing.com
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006443/en/