IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices, part of the HSF Affiliates LLC family of real estate brokerage franchise networks, today announced the selection of four new members to its REthink Council, a national group of 15 top-producing, motivated young agents from Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices network brokerages around the country.
“We’re focused on the real estate market of today and tomorrow,” said HSF Affiliates CEO Gino Blefari. “The REthink Council is a unique group in the industry, focusing on sustainable success for current and future real estate agents in our network. We expect our new members to contribute right away.”
Members were selected through a nominating process for their professional achievements and contributions to their communities and offices; each member is an exemplary agent or broker exhibiting innovation, participation and leadership within the Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices network.
New REthink Council members include: Cameron Deehr, Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Stadmiller Realty in Sandusky, OH; Ellen Hill, Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Georgia Properties, Atlanta, GA; Lindsey Fowkes, Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Florida Properties Group, Tampa, FL; and Onie Bolduc, Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Colorado Properties, Vail, CO.
In addition to its 15 council members, the REthink Council also includes Broker Advisor Vince Leisey, president and broker/owner of Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Ambassador Real Estate.
“We have an incredibly strong council, and I’m excited to work with these agents as they generate ideas and insights that will better not only our network but also contribute to real estate industry at large,” Leisey said.
Added Blefari, “The members of this group have the passion and energy needed to effect real change. They’re all about collaboration and learning, and are genuinely interested in helping our brokers perpetuate a vibrant culture of success.”
The national REthink Council launched December 2013 and has since expanded to include more than 25 local chapters in the Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices network across the U.S. as well as a robust blog, REthinkReport.com, and a growing social media presence.
“It’s critical for us as a brand to embrace the millennial perspective,” explained Rosalie Warner, VP, Network Services at HSF Affiliates and REthink Council’s Executive Sponsor. “The real estate industry is ever-changing and it’s important as a brokerage franchisor is to listen, learn and become stronger together.”
About Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices and HSF Affiliates LLC
Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices, based in Irvine, CA, is a real estate brokerage network built for a new era in residential real estate. The network, among the few organizations entrusted to use the world-renowned Berkshire Hathaway name, brings to the real estate market a definitive mark of trust, integrity, stability and longevity. Visit www.berkshirehathawayhs.com.
Irvine, CA-based HSF Affiliates LLC operates Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices, Prudential Real Estate and Real Living Real Estate franchise networks. The company is a joint venture of which HomeServices of America, Inc., the nation’s second-largest, full-service residential brokerage firm, is a majority owner. HomeServices of America is an affiliate of world-renowned Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
Prudential, the Prudential logo and the Rock symbol are service marks of Prudential Financial, Inc. and its related entities, and are used under license with no other affiliation with Prudential.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006330/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}