DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Egg Replacement Ingredient Market: Global Industry Analysis and Opportunity Assessment, 2016-2026" report to their offering.
The global egg replacement ingredient market is anticipated to register a CAGR of 5.8% during the forecast period (2016 - 2026) and is estimated to be valued at US$ 1,533.3 Mn by 2026 end.
Rising prices of eggs and increasing consumer awareness towards preventative healthcare is expected to boost market growth
Egg shortage crisis due to avian influenza, increasing demand for plant based ingredients and increased cost of eggs are factors expected to support the growth of the global egg replacement ingredient market over the forecast period. Rising consumer awareness towards preventative healthcare and an inclination towards products with low cholesterol levels is further likely to fuel the growth of the global egg replacement ingredient market during the forecast period. Manufacturers are focussing on production catering to rising consumer demands for vegan or vegetarian edible products and allergen-free products.
However, increased cost of the final product and the fact that egg replacement ingredients do not offer the same taste effect as eggs is likely to restrict the growth of the global egg replacement ingredient market over the forecast period.
Market segmentation
By Ingredient
By Application
By End Use
By Form
Key Topics Covered:
1. Global Egg Replacement Ingredient Market Executive Summary
2. Assumptions and Acronyms Used
3. Research Methodology
4. Global Egg Replacement Ingredients Market Analysis
5. Market Dynamics
6. Global Egg Replacement Ingredients Market Overview
7. North America Egg Replacement Ingredients Market Analysis and Forecast
8. EMEA Egg Replacement Ingredients Market Analysis and Forecast
9. APAC Egg Replacement Ingredients Market Analysis and Forecast
10. Latin America Egg Replacement Ingredients Market Analysis and Forecast
11. Competition Landscape
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/29dpg4/egg_replacement

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005627/en/