SANTA ANA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Pipe Restoration Technologies, LLC (PRT), makers of the patented ePIPE®, Lead-Free Leak-Free™ product line, announced today that ePIPE recently helped more than 40 United States school facilities become compliant with EPA’s lead leaching regulations. Throughout the past year, more schools across the country have been concerned with their drinking water, and ePIPE is helping.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006329/en/ 
These educational facilities joined the ePIPE LeadSmart™ program, which is the first program of its kind that serves as a comprehensive solution for schools and other buildings bringing harmful lead and copper levels into EPA compliance in the properties’ drinking water systems. The LeadSmart approach begins with a review of possible sources of lead leaching, corrective actions (which includes the application of the patented ePIPE pipe lining process) and, where necessary, replacement of suspected lead contributing fixtures.
“Many people don’t know that lead contributors, such as lead solder in copper piping systems and brass fixtures, can leach lead at levels that exceed the EPA’s cut off levels, making the water dangerous for consumption,” ACE DuraFlo® CEO Larry Gillanders said. “Our goal is to provide multi-faceted education to our clients about lead leaching and lead contributors. We administer water sampling to test a client’s domestic water system for lead, an analysis of the pipe system’s health, remediation recommendations of possible lead contributors and then our team carries out the repairs as required.”
The patented ePIPE Lead-Free, Leak-Free pipe protection process reduces lead and copper leaching to well below the EPA’s cut off levels. Using the ePIPE method, a fast-curing barrier coating is applied to the interior of the pipes, which brings lead and copper leaching to safe levels, while also protecting against pinhole leaks. Compared to a repipe, the ePIPE LeadSmart process is minimally invasive, cost-effective and offers minimal operational downtime in the piping system.
ePIPE suggests that all educational facilities, commercial buildings, industrial structures and residential properties take advantage of the LeadSmart program by contacting PRT.
About Pipe Restoration Technologies, LLC:
PRT is the parent company of the ePIPE product and worldwide group of installers that utilize the patented ePIPE process to restore pipes in-place. An alternative to a destructive repipe, this process is achieved using an application of an epoxy barrier coating, which results in a restored, epoxy lined piping system. The process provides a solution for pinhole leaks, epoxy lining, corrosion control and prevention of lead leaching from pipes without the destruction or disruption encountered by pipe replacements. PRT and its affiliated companies have locations throughout the United States, United Kingdom, Belgium, Spain, Mexico and Hong Kong. For more information, contact PRT at www.epipeinfo.com or (888) 775-0220.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006329/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006329/en/