NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Wolters Kluwer’s CT Corporation has been recognized as a silver winner in the Small or Medium Business Product of the Year category in the Best in Biz Awards 2016, the only independent business awards program judged by members of the press and industry analysts.
This is the third year that the Best in Biz Awards has recognized CT Corporation, which works with more than 300,000 small and mid-sized businesses and helps keep 1.6 million entities in compliance every year.
This year’s award recognizes CT Assurance, a complete compliance solution that supports the entire lifecycle of a business and its legal entities. The tool helps business owners monitor spend, boost efficiencies, stay in good legal standing and save time. Clients have access to a customizable product suite that includes registered agent services, annual report services, entity management tools, corporate document filings and retrievals, and more. CT Assurance also won a Bronze Stevie Award for New Product of the Year in the 2016 American Business Awards competition.
“CT Corporation is honored to be recognized by the Best in Biz Awards for the third straight year,” said Rex Caswell, vice president at Wolters Kluwer’s CT Corporation. “With products such as CT Assurance, we remain committed to helping small and mid-sized business owners continue to build their businesses even as they face more regulatory and compliance challenges than ever before.”
The sixth annual Best in Biz Awards drew more than 600 entries from across the United States and Canada. This year’s winners were determined based on scoring from an independent panel of 50 judges from widely known newspapers, TV outlets, and business, consumer and technology publications, including AdWeek, Associated Press, Entrepreneur, Forbes, The Wall Street Journal and Wired.
For a full list of gold, silver and bronze winners in the Best in Biz Awards 2016, visit http://www.bestinbizawards.com/2016-winners.
About Wolters Kluwer Governance, Risk & ComplianceWolters Kluwer is a global leader in professional information services and solutions for professionals in the health, tax and accounting, risk and compliance, finance and legal sectors. We help our customers make critical decisions every day by providing expert solutions that combine deep domain knowledge with specialized technology and services. Wolters Kluwer reported 2015 annual revenues of €4.2 billion. The company, headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands, serves customers in over 180 countries, maintains operations in over 40 countries and employs 19,000 people worldwide.
CT Corporation is part of Wolters Kluwer’s Governance, Risk & Compliance division, which provides legal, finance, risk and compliance professionals and small business owners with a broad spectrum of solutions, services and expertise needed to help manage myriad governance, risk and compliance needs in dynamic markets and regulatory environments.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005276/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}