WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today, Citizens Against Government Waste (CAGW) announced the addition of Mary J. Grace and Michael Franc to its Board of Directors. They were also elected to the board of CAGW’s lobbying arm, the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW).
Mary. J. Grace is the daughter of Citizens Against Government Waste co-founder J. Peter Grace (1914-1995) and follows her brother Patrick Grace onto CAGW’s Board of Directors, to help preserve a living connection to her father’s legacy. Mr. Grace co-founded CAGW in 1984 with legendary newspaper columnist and Pulitzer Prize-winner Jack Anderson (1922-2005).
Mary Grace is a New York-based design professional who has worked on a number of residential and commercial projects. She has a B.A. in Fine Arts from Parson’s The New School of Design, and an M.A. from the Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture. Mary spent five years as a project director and the director of special events for AmeriCares, an international medical relief organization. Other charitable work includes fundraising and special event planning for Ireland’s Children and the Belfast, Ireland-based Flax Trust America. Mary also helps oversee projects for the Grace Family Foundations.
Michael Franc is the Hoover Institution’s director of DC programs, where he oversees research and outreach initiatives to promote ideas and scholarship in the nation’s capital. He holds a dual appointment as a research fellow. Mike is a longtime veteran of Washington, D.C. policymaking. Prior to joining Hoover, Mike served as policy director and counsel for House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.). He also served as the vice president of government relations for the Heritage Foundation from 1997-2013. During this time, he managed all of the think tank’s outreach with Capitol Hill and the executive branch.
He also completed a tour of duty as communications director for former House Majority Leader Dick Armey (R-Texas) and worked for the U.S. Department of Education and the Office of National Drug Control Policy. He has been quoted widely in the print and broadcast media, and was a regular contributor to The National Review Online and other publications. Mike has a B.A. from Yale University and a J.D. from Georgetown University.
“We at Citizens Against Government Waste are honored to have Mary Grace and Mike Franc join our Board of Directors,” CAGW President Tom Schatz said. “Their unique combination of experiences and expertise will greatly benefit CAGW’s more than one million members and supporters.”
Citizens Against Government Waste is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006040/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}