ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Airlines Reporting Corp. (ARC), the premier driver of air travel intelligence and commerce in the travel industry, reported today that Paris and Rome top the list for Christmas and New Year’s Eve bookings* made through ARC MarketPlace—a website that provides travel agents with commissionable goods like worldwide activities, tours, airport transfers, car rentals and passport/visa services.
Trips to Australia and New Zealand remain popular while Iceland made the top 10 for both holidays for the first time. The Galapagos Islands rounded out the top five destinations for Christmas. Four-hundred ninety two different tours and activities have been booked across 163 destinations for Christmas while 276 tours and activities across 98 destinations are booked for New Year’s Eve.
The most popular worldwide destinations for Christmas tours booked at ARC MarketPlace are Rome (Christmas Eve dinner and mass at St Peter’s Basilica), Paris (Eiffel Tower dinner, Seine River cruise and Moulin Rouge show by minivan) and London (“London in One Day” sightseeing tour including Tower of London and Changing of the Guard).
The most popular worldwide destinations for New Year’s Eve tours booked at ARC MarketPlace are Paris (New Year’s Eve Seine River cruise with four course dinner, wine and entertainment), London (New Year’s Eve river dinner cruise and fireworks display) and Queenstown, New Zealand (Milford Sound Mariner overnight cruise from Queenstown).
The top 10 worldwide Christmas bookings for 2016 are:
The top 10 worldwide New Year’s Eve bookings for 2016 are:
About ARC:
The Airlines Reporting Corporation (ARC) is the premier driver of air travel intelligence and commerce in the travel industry with leading business solutions, travel agency accreditation services, process and financial management tools and high-quality data. In 2015, ARC settled $88.3 billion worth of carrier ticket transactions for more than 9,400 travel agencies with 13,000 points of sale. Established in 1984, ARC is headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, with offices in Louisville, Kentucky, Tampa, Florida and San Juan, Puerto Rico. For more information, please visit www.arccorp.com and www.twitter.com/ARCtalk.
Notes for Editors:
*Booking Sales
©2016 Airlines Reporting Corporation (ARC). All rights reserved.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006173/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}