LAS VEGAS & MONROVIA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Parasoft announced an update to its Continuous Testing solution—integrating Service Virtualization, API Testing, and Test Data Management with Test Environment Management to enable early, rapid, and rigorous testing of highly connected applications. The solution is currently being featured at Parasoft's booth at Gartner Application Strategies & Solutions Summit in Las Vegas.
The latest Continuous Testing solution (Continuous Testing Platform 3.0, Virtualize 9.10, and SOAtest 9.10) provides the industry's most powerful and comprehensive thin client interface for service virtualization and API testing. From any browser, a broad range of team members can rapidly create, leverage, and share API testing and service virtualization assets to accelerate testing and support advanced automation for Continuous Integration and Delivery scenarios.
“In this release, we have focused on broadening service virtualization access and packaging, addressing both creation and deployment," stated Mark Lambert VP of Products for Parasoft. "For creation, we have enabled advanced workflows of the Parasoft Virtualize Desktop providing users the ability to create sophisticated assets directly from their browser. On the deployment side, Docker scripts, available on the Parasoft Marketplace, and prebuilt images, hosted within the Microsoft Azure Marketplace for both on-demand and BYOL licensing, provide a complete set of deployment options for scalable service virtualization."
The new release also features:
About Parasoft
Parasoft researches and develops software solutions that help organizations deliver defect-free software efficiently. By integrating development testing, API testing, and service virtualization, we reduce the time, effort, and cost of delivering secure, reliable, and compliant software. Parasoft's enterprise and embedded development solutions are the industry's most comprehensive—including static analysis, unit testing, requirements traceability, coverage analysis, functional and load testing, dev/test environment management, and more. The majority of Fortune 500 companies rely on Parasoft in order to produce top-quality software consistently and efficiently as they pursue agile, lean, DevOps, compliance, and safety-critical development initiatives.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005934/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}