BELLEVUE, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Muckleshoot Casino bets on virtual reality (VR) and wins with VRstudios.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005493/en/ 
VRstudios, a leading global VR technology company offering wireless immersive commercial entertainment and enterprise solutions, announced today that Auburn, Washington’s Muckleshoot Casino has installed its wireless, full-motion, multi-player VR system and experiences. The move makes Muckleshoot Casino the first gaming facility in the nation to offer streaming wireless VR and is already proving to be a hit with customers.
“People of all ages are loving this riveting new experience. Some customers are so enthralled they’ve played VRstudios’ games more than 15 times in a single night and then returned the next evening for another round of fun,” said Junior Maldonado, Entertainment Manager of Muckleshoot Casino.
The revolutionary VR system is being offered in the casino’s popular nightlife venue, Club Galaxy. One- and two-player experiences transport guests back in time to a town overrun by zombies or into the midst of a Western-style shoot-out.
Muckleshoot Casino chose VRstudios of Bellevue, Washington, to continue its long track record for industry-changing, world-class entertainment. In only a few weeks, the VRstudios platform solution and experiences are already attracting new customers to the biggest casino in the Pacific Northwest.
“With VRstudios, Muckleshoot Casino is now home to a new form of entertainment never before offered, not only in the region, but in casino gaming,” said Conrad Granito, General Manager of Muckleshoot Casino. “We chose VRstudios for its superior VR capabilities and rich immersive content. Our groundbreaking partnership ensures our ability to continually offer the newest forms of VR games. It reflects our commitment to delivering unique, must-experience entertainment to our guests.”
VRstudios has installed their VR systems and content with customers and partners in eleven countries throughout Asia, Europe, Middle East, Russia and the United States. The Muckleshoot relationship marks the company’s first announcement of a casino installation.
“VRstudios’ industry-first approach to VR is attracting U.S. and international theme parks, family entertainment centers, arcades and other entertainment venues,” added Kevin Vitale, President of VRstudios. “Entertainment companies are discovering that our platform and solutions can help evolve and grow their businesses, as well as increase customer loyalty.”
The entertainment industry is proving to be serious business for VRstudios. During recent months, the company has attracted high-visibility relationships and partnerships with entertainment and distribution leaders across the world, such as Universal Studios Orlando, Meraas’ Hub Zero in Dubai, Korea’s Simuline, Smartlaunch in Europe, and North America’s Stampede.
About Muckleshoot Casino
Proclaimed a “local favorite” by Thrillist, Muckleshoot Casino in Auburn, Wash., is the clear choice for food, gaming and fun. Offering the biggest casino in the Pacific Northwest, guests will find more than 3,100 games to play, thrilling new ways to win instantly and the largest smoke-free gaming in the state. Muckleshoot Casino also provides eight delectable dining experiences, from the finest in Asian cuisine at “8” to the endless culinary delights of Spice Bay Buffet®. Keep the fun going all night long at Club Galaxy, where live entertainment is always free! Muckleshoot Casino is located 30 minutes from Seattle, Wash. For more information, visit muckleshootcasino.com.
About VRstudios:
VRstudios (www.vrstudios.com) is a leading global VR technology company delivering the first truly wireless, full-range-of-motion, multi-participant, immersive experiences for the commercial entertainment and enterprise industries. Applications include visualization experiences and simulation training for such industries as architecture, construction, industrial design, theme parks, arcades and others. VRstudios is the first company to offer an all-in-one VR solution bundle, including its own experience management software, wireless headsets and interactive devices, entertainment content and developer tools. The company launched in 2014 and is headquartered in Bellevue, Washington.
Follow VRstudios here:
https://www.facebook.com/vrstudiosusa/
https://twitter.com/VRStudiosUSA
https://www.linkedin.com/company/vrstudios
Follow Muckleshoot Casino here:
https://www.facebook.com/muckleshootcasino/
https://twitter.com/Muckleshoot_C
https://www.instagram.com/muckleshootcasino/

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005493/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005493/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}