ROSELAND, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
National law firm Lowenstein Sandler proudly announced that it received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI). This national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBT workplace equality is administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Lowenstein Sandler joins the ranks of 517 major U.S. businesses which also earned top marks this year.
“Lowenstein is proud to be recognized for our diversity efforts and our commitment to LGBT workplace equality,” said Gary M. Wingens, Chairman and Managing Partner at Lowenstein Sandler. “Our success as a firm is directly linked to our ability to create a community that is diverse, inclusive, and supportive — one in which all of our employees can thrive.”
The Firm’s LGBTQ Alliance is a vibrant, fast-growing affinity group that advocates on behalf of the LGBTQ community both within the firm and in the external community. Says Chief Human Resources Officer Donatella Verrico, “We provide training on LGBTQ issues to every member of the firm and seek their feedback to build inclusivity. We recently became one of the first law firms to institute a policy that allows individuals to use the restroom that reflects their gender identity. Among other initiatives, one of our partners recently co-organized a summit of LGBTQ leaders in the tech community at the White House.”
The 2017 CEI rated 1,043 businesses in the report, which evaluates LGBT-related policies and practices including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the LGBT community. Lowenstein Sandler’s efforts in satisfying all of the CEI’s criteria results in a 100 percent ranking and the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality.
For more information on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index, or to download a free copy of the report, visit www.hrc.org/cei.
About the Human Rights Campaign Foundation
The Human Rights Campaign Foundation is the educational arm of America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer people. HRC envisions a world where LGBTQ people are embraced as full members of society at home, at work, and in every community.
About Lowenstein Sandler
Lowenstein Sandler is a national law firm with more than 300 lawyers working from six offices in New York, New Jersey, California, Washington, D.C., and Utah. We represent clients in virtually every sector of the global economy, with particular strength in the areas of technology, life sciences, and the financial management and fund formation industry sectors that fuel economic growth.
We have built a reputation for pursuing every matter with creativity and passion. Our industry knowledge, entrepreneurial drive and proven commitment to our communities deliver a different and better law firm experience to our clients. We focus on building long-standing relationships and anticipating our clients’ needs, rather than responding to them. Working side-by-side with our clients, we serve not only as attorneys, but as trusted advisors.
We approach each case, each client and each other with integrity and respect. And, our award winning pro-bono work enables us to connect individuals and communities with unimaginable success.
We are Lowenstein Sandler, and we are intensely devoted to all we serve.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005988/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}