LOUISVILLE, Ky.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Papa John’s International, Inc. (PZZA), continues its expansion in Colombia with the signing of a restaurant development agreement. According to the International Trade Administration, the food and beverage sector holds the best growth opportunities in Colombia.
Grupo Nutresa, which purchased PJ Col S.A.S. in 2015 (PJ Col), recently entered into a development agreement to open an additional 28 units during a period of eight years in Medellin, Cartagena and Barranquilla. PJ Col currently operates 29 Papa John’s restaurants throughout Colombia. Each Papa John’s new store opening represents approximately 15 to 20 direct new jobs in Colombia.
“Our investment in Papa John’s has exceeded our expectations and we are continuing our momentum by planning for additional units in our country,” said Felipe Baquero, Managing Director of PJ Col. “More units means more jobs in the local communities.”
“PJ Col has done a great job of growing the Papa John’s Brand in Colombia and we are excited about the plans for future expansion,” said Tim O’Hern, Senior Vice President & Chief Development Officer. “We look forward to working with PJ Col as we expand the brand into new cities in Colombia.”
Papa John’s International is currently looking for potential franchisees in Brazil, the Caribbean and Honduras.
About Papa John’s
Headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, Papa John's International, Inc. (PZZA) is the world's third-largest pizza delivery company. For 15 of the past 17 years, consumers have rated Papa John's No. 1 in customer satisfaction among all national pizza chains in the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI). Papa John's is the Official Pizza Sponsor of the National Football League and the Official Pizza of Major League Baseball. For more information about the company or to order pizza online, visit Papa John's at www.papajohns.com. Also visit us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/PapaJohns, Twitter at http://twitter.com/PapaJohns, YouTube at www.youtube.com/user/papajohns, Instagram at instagram.com/papajohns, Pinterest at www.pinterest.com/papajohnspizza, and Vine at vine.co/papajohns. Looking to be a part of something Better? Learn more about franchising with Papa John's at www.papajohns.com/franchise.
About Grupo Nutresa
Grupo Nutresa S. A. (NUTRESA:BVC) is the leader in processed foods in Colombia (+61% market share) and one of the most relevant players in the sector in Latin America, with consolidated sales of COP 7.945 billion in 8 business units: cold cuts, biscuits, chocolates, Tresmontes Lucchetti (TMLUC), coffee, retail food, ice cream and pasta. Grupo Nutresa is a diversified organization in terms of geography, products and supplies, with a direct presence in 14 countries and international sales amounting to USD 1.098 million in 72 countries. Grupo Nutresa was included for the sixth consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI) 2016, which places us among the best companies in the food sector in the world in terms of sustainability. Visit us at: www.gruponutresa.com/en/ and www.twitter.com/Grupo_Nutresa.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005045/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}