PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
LiquidHub, a customer engagement company, today announced its research sponsorship of a 12-part series with Knowledge@Wharton, an online business analysis journal for the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. The series, titled The Network Revolution, is authored by Barry Libert, Megan Beck, and Jerry (Yoram) Wind, professor of marketing at the Wharton School and director of Wharton’s SEI Center for Advanced Studies in Management.
The authors explore why companies, whose business models involve leveraging networks, generate more value than traditional firms as capital, talent, and customers are shifting towards network-centric organizations in this digital transformation age.
“Innovative companies building value in the 21st century economy need to understand how to move from delivering value from physical goods and people to delivering value through ideas and connectivity,” said Jonathan Brassington, CEO and co-founder of LiquidHub. “LiquidHub is proud to sponsor this series, which explores the kinds of transformations we help our clients achieve.”
In conjunction with the series, LiquidHub is proud to announce Professor Jerry Wind as the newest member of its Executive Advisory Board (EAB), comprised of highly respected entrepreneurs, strategists, investors, marketers, technologists and innovators.
Having lectured at more than 50 universities worldwide, Wind is internationally known for pioneering research on organizational buying behavior, market segmentation, conjoint analysis, and marketing strategy. Considered one of the most cited authors in marketing, Wind regularly contributes to professional marketing literature, which includes more than 25 books and over 300 research papers, articles and monographs.
Wind served as the founding editor of Wharton School Publishing, a joint venture with Pearson Education, and is the recipient of four major marketing awards, including the Charles Coolidge Parlin Award, the AMA/Irwin Distinguished Educator Award, the Paul D. Converse Award, and the Buck Weaver Award. He was also selected as one of the first nine “Legends in Marketing” by Sage Publishing, which published eight volumes of Wind’s work.
“The greatest challenge facing leaders in companies that want to benefit from these new market opportunities is figuring out how to transform from their current model into a networked organization that leverages today’s digital platforms,” said Wind. “We’re especially grateful for LiquidHub’s support of this series, given their commitment to providing digital transformation solutions for their clients. I’m proud to join their Executive Advisory Board to counsel on transformative strategies that have a meaningful impact on customer solutions.”
Previously announced members of the Advisory Board
About Knowledge@WhartonKnowledge@Wharton is the online business analysis journal of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. The site, which is free, captures relevant knowledge generated at Wharton and beyond by offering articles and videos based on research, conferences, speakers, books and interviews with faculty and other experts on current business topics. Knowledge@Wharton offers content in Chinese, Spanish and Portuguese and has a separate site for high school educators and students.
Founded in 1881 as the first collegiate business school, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania is recognized globally for intellectual leadership and ongoing innovation across every major discipline of business education. With a broad global community and one of the most published business school faculties, Wharton creates economic and social value around the world. The School has 5,000 undergraduate, MBA, executive MBA, and doctoral students; more than 9,000 participants in executive education programs annually and a powerful alumni network of 95,000 graduates.
About LiquidHubLiquidHub is a customer engagement company that partners with businesses to improve customer experience and drive growth. Headquartered in Philadelphia, with operations in North America, Asia, and Europe, we serve companies globally, helping them solve their most complex challenges through design expertise and technology innovation. Our customer successes are the result of a culture rooted in thought leadership and delivery excellence. For more information about LiquidHub, please visit www.liquidhub.com or follow us on Twitter or LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005556/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}