CINCINNATI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Ultimus Fund Solutions®, LLC (Ultimus) announced today that it has been chosen by Ladder Capital Asset Management LLC (Ladder) to provide fund administration services for the firm’s first mutual fund, the Ladder Select Bond Fund (Fund). Headquartered in New York, Ladder intends to use the Ultimus Managers Trust platform as the firm strategically expands its product offerings. The Fund draws on the firm’s significant expertise in the commercial real estate credit markets and is intended to provide a fixed-income strategy that may appeal to a variety of investors.
As part of the relationship, Ultimus helped craft Ladder’s Fund to support the firm’s business goals. Ladder selected Ultimus after a national search, citing the firm’s strategic expertise and consultative approach to the design and launch of the Fund as major factors. Ladder is one of the most recent managers to choose Ultimus for administration, fund accounting, transfer agency, compliance and distribution services through the Ultimus Managers Trust, solidifying Ultimus as a leader in the series trust arena.
“Ladder’s investment strategy draws on the firm’s commercial real estate expertise and we believe is unique in the marketplace. This approach raised specific product design and distribution considerations that had to be thought through during the planning process,” said Dave Carson, President of Ultimus Managers Trust. “We are pleased to be aligned with a firm of Ladder’s position and recognition in the marketplace. They are well established and we’re delighted to help them work towards achieving another business goal.”
“It was evident early in the process that Ultimus had expertise to help position the Fund, thinking about what will be suitable tomorrow and in the future. We have a unique product and appreciate the knowledge and support Ultimus provided in bringing the Fund to market,” said Thomas Harney, Head of Merchant Banking & Capital Markets at Ladder. “With their consultative approach, they clearly understand our business direction and how to design the Fund most effectively to get there. We’re excited about our Fund, and happy to have Ultimus as a partner.”
About Ultimus Fund Solutions
Ultimus Fund Solutions provides highly customized and comprehensive mutual fund services to small and medium-sized fund groups. The company offers mutual fund startup and organization services, fund administration, fund accounting, transfer agent and distribution services for both open-end and closed-end funds. Ultimus’ broad range of services is performed by teams of accountants, attorneys, paralegals and other professionals with a wealth of mutual fund experience.
For more information, visit www.ultimusfundsolutions.com.
About Ladder
Ladder is a subsidiary of Ladder Capital Corp (“Ladder Capital”). Ladder Capital operates a publicly traded, internally-managed real estate investment trust that is a leader in commercial real estate finance. Ladder Capital originates and invests in a diverse portfolio of commercial real estate and real estate-related assets, focusing on senior secured assets. Ladder Capital’s investment activities include: (i) direct origination of commercial real estate first mortgage loans; (ii) investments in investment grade securities secured by first mortgage loans on commercial real estate; and (iii) investments in net leased and other commercial real estate equity. Founded in 2008, Ladder Capital is run by a highly experienced management team with extensive expertise in all aspects of the commercial real estate industry, including origination, credit, underwriting, structuring, capital markets and asset management. Led by Brian Harris, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Ladder is headquartered in New York City and has branches in Boca Raton and Los Angeles.
For more information, visit www.laddercapital.com and www.ladderfunds.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005098/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}