MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America (Allianz Life®) has received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI) administered by the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Foundation. Earning this score designates Allianz Life as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality according to the HRC. The CEI is a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender workplace equality. Allianz Life is one of 517 other major U.S. businesses who earned a perfect score to make the list this year.
“We are honored to be recognized by the HRC and are proud of our culture of integrity and respect,” said Allianz Life Chief Human Resources Officer Suzanne Dowd Zeller. “The various backgrounds and perspectives of Allianz Life employees play a key role in contributing to our success.”
Supporting diverse employee demographics and identities is critical to the success of Allianz Life. One way the company promotes diversity is through voluntary, employee-led groups known as Employee Resource Groups. One of these groups, Encore, helps the Allianz Life LGBT community and all other employees. Encore supports LGBT causes through inclusion, ally engagement, education, community involvement and outreach. Encore also promotes a safe workplace for LGBT employees, networks with other companies, participates in Twin Cities LGBT events and supports local and national equal rights initiatives.
The 2017 CEI rated 1,043 businesses, evaluating LGBT-related policies including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the LGBT community. Employers that earn a 100 percent rating on the CEI have satisfied all the criteria established for that year and are recognized as a Best Place to Work for LGBT equality. The HRC Foundation is the educational arm of America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender and queer people. For more information on the 2017 CEI, visit www.hrc.org/cei.
In addition to this honor, Allianz Life has earned three top workplace awards in 2016. The company ranked number 80 on the 100 Best Companies to Work For® list by FORTUNE, was number 12 on Star Tribune’s Top 100 Workplace list and was number 76 on the Working Mother 100 Best Companies of 2016 list.
About Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America
Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America, one of FORTUNE’s 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2016, has been keeping its promises since 1896. Today, it carries on that tradition, helping Americans achieve their retirement income and protection goals with a variety of annuities and life insurance products. In 2015, Allianz Life provided a total of $2.4 billion in benefit payments that supported policyholders’ financial objectives. As a leading provider of fixed index annuities, Allianz Life is part of Allianz SE, a global leader in the financial services industry with 142,000 employees in more than 70 countries worldwide. More than 85 million private and corporate customers rely on Allianz knowledge, global reach, and capital strength to help them make the most of financial opportunities.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005878/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}