NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
De Beers is proud to announce the unveiling of its new home in the USA on Madison Avenue in New York City.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005418/en/ 
The new two story 2,153sq.ft (200sq.m.) store, located in a town house in one of the most desirable locations in Manhattan’s Upper East Side, is at 716 Madison Avenue between 63rd and 64th streets.
The store design was developed to showcase the full range of De Beers’ timeless creations and highlight the peerlessly beautiful diamonds and craftsmanship of the exquisite jewellery whilst offering a more intimate and enhanced customer experience. It does feature, for the first time in the American market, a new and inspiring store concept, featuring a warm and elegant yet luminous and singular atmosphere.
Inside the store, the brand’s legacy as the home of diamonds since 1888 springs to life through its interior décor presenting a contemporary signature blending heritage features such as the signature etched glass of the brand, and a savvy interplay of noble materials, discreet partitions and statement furnishings. The entrance to the store features a unique natural rock crystal chandelier emitting a warm light which combines beautifully with the untreated oak of the elegant furniture and the rich textures of the fabrics. De Beers have partnered with the finest artisans to create this unique space – from the beautifully crafted curved wall around the stairs to the way the fabrics have been carefully set in place.
The store meets all the latest standards for environmentally friendly retail from the low power supply lighting to the oak exclusively coming from sustainably managed forests.
The ground floor will present the High Jewellery solitaires and creations, as well as the Collections whilst the first floor is dedicated to bridal in the form of a cosy and welcoming salon. Private client rooms have been created to ensure a highly personalized shopping experience in a luxurious, intimate space.
Inside the store, you can learn about the De Beers Legendary diamonds, feel what a beautiful rough diamond feels like to hold in your hand, discover unique High Jewelry creations or create your own solitaire ring via our bespoke “For you, Forever” service.
“We are delighted to unveil our new home on Madison Avenue in New York, an address representing better the positioning of our brand and customer experience. We have designed this new space with our clients in mind to fully express our brand’s uniqueness and convey our century old diamond understanding in a friendly setting. Through this beautiful space dedicated to our craft, we invite our clients to an intimate and personal experience where expertise meets emotion! It is also a strong signal to the American market and our customers,” François Delage, CEO De Beers Diamonds Jewellers comments.
It is a spectacular showcase for an array of wondrous jewels created to celebrate life’s most memorable moments and achievements. The full range of De Beers jewellery is represented, including stunning solitaires and wedding creations, iconic collections such as Talisman and Enchanted Lotus and unique High Jewellery collections. Bridal and wedding designs are presented dynamically in a round discovery counter, which invites clients to explore and be inspired.
A selection of High Jewelry pieces includes designs from the latest London by De Beers High Jewelry collection, launched this summer during Couture Week in Paris, alongside exceptional solitaires in the 1888 Master Diamond Collection.
The De Beers Iris, an in-store demonstrator that illustrates the beauty of the brand’s hand-selected diamonds, encourages clients to more fully appreciate the fire, life and brilliance of a De Beers diamond. This technology offers visitors a chance to look at diamonds with the eyes of an expert and discover the unique beauty of each diamond.
At its New York City flagship, not only does De Beers offer the world’s most desirable diamonds a new home, it also opens a fresh chapter in its 125-year legacy.
De Beers celebrated the opening of its new home on Madison with an elegant cocktail for the who’s who of Manhattan to discover this beautiful destination for diamond jewellery. In keeping with the brand DNA the evening was a tribute to talented women from around the world with Kate Mara, Greta Gerwig and Fan Bingbing all sparkling in De Beers creations, whilst guests enjoyed the music from renowned London DJ Harley Viera-Newton. Also in attendance was a unique 109 carat type II A rough diamond – this natural beauty, just as Mother Nature created it, is a rare find for both its carat weight and colour.
Link to download images of the event:
De Beers Madison Avenue Opening Event Images
De Beers Madison Avenue Opening Event Images (2)
ABOUT DE BEERS DIAMOND JEWELLERS
The Home of Diamonds since 1888, De Beers creates wondrous jewels with peerlessly beautiful diamonds to celebrate all of life’s events. De Beers meticulously hand-selects the world’s finest diamonds for their unique Fire, Life and Brilliance. Over 125 years of diamond mastery go into creating each wondrous design.
De Beers is entirely committed to authenticity and integrity. Every diamond above 0.20 carats is microscopically branded with the De Beers Marque and catalogued in the De Beers diamond registry. Every client receives a De Beers Certificate of Authenticity detailing the specifications of their jewel and guaranteeing that De Beers diamonds are natural, untreated, conflict-free and responsibly sourced and crafted, for complete peace of mind.
De Beers Diamond Jewellers is an independently managed and operated company run by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the world's leading luxury products group, and De Beers SA, the world's premier diamond mining and marketing company.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005418/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005418/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}