DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Viscosupplementation Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global viscosupplementation market to grow at a CAGR of 6.23% during the period 2016-2020.
Global Viscosupplementation Market 2016-2020, has been prepared based on an in-depth market analysis with inputs from industry experts. The report covers the market landscape and its growth prospects over the coming years. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
The shift in consumer preference from cheaper five-injection cycle products to premium priced single-injection cycle products is a major positive trend being witnessed in the market in recent years. Despite its exorbitant cost, consumers are increasingly going for single-injection cycle viscosupplements because of shorter treatment time.
According to the report, fast-growing geriatric population is the major driver driving growth in the market. A rising concern worldwide is the fast-growing elderly population, especially in the major countries such as Japan, South Korea, China, Germany, and the US. The geriatric people in these countries are affected by a wide range of chronic diseases such as cancer, liver, osteoarthritis, and kidney diseases.
Further, the report states that the increase in the number of substitutes for viscosupplementation is the major challenge being faced by the manufacturers in the market. NSAIDs, knee replacement devices, cyclooxygenase inhibitors, and joint arthroplasty devices are the substitutes for viscosupplements used in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis.
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by products
Part 07: Geographical segmentation
Part 08: Market drivers
Part 09: Impact of drivers
Part 10: Market challenges
Part 11: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 12: Market trends
Part 13: Vendor landscape
Part 14: Key vendor analysis
Part 15: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/tknlc5/global

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005622/en/