The Trump rally is running out of steam as fresh concerns over the U.S. outlook and stability in Europe weigh on the dollar and global equities.
The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index is headed for its first weekly drop since Donald Trump’s election to the presidency fueled bets on increased fiscal stimulus and a subsequent bounce in U.S. growth. Australian shares opened lower and futures on other indexes in the region signaled declines after technology-stock losses dragged the S&P 500 Index down a second day. The euro and yen maintained gains against the greenback amid caution ahead of key American jobs data, Italy’s weekend referendum and Austria’s presidential vote. Australian bonds extended their slide with crude oil above $51 a barrel.
Developed-market stocks are also on track for their first weekly retreat since the U.S. vote, amid a let up in support for so-called reflation trades, which gained ground as Trump’s victory burnished the U.S. economic outlook and helped odds on an interest-rate hike this month to 100 percent. Billionaire bond fund manager Bill Gross said investors betting on a Trump windfall are misguided, with any benefits from increased stimulus likely to be temporary. Italy’s referendum on reducing the power of the Senate is also weighing on risk sentiment, given a win for ‘No’ could result in the government’s ouster.
More from Bloomberg.com: OPEC Confounds Skeptics, Agrees to First Oil Cuts in 8 Years
“Markets have rallied pretty strongly and we had three fantastic weeks but buying pressure certainly looks exhausted,” James Woods, global investment analyst at Rivkin Securities in Sydney said by phone. “We will see some corrective declines and profit taking, and from a technical perspective, allowing momentum indicators to unwind before gains can be sustained.”
As well as the U.S. nonfarm payrolls report, Friday brings an update on South Korean gross domestic product and Japan’s monetary base. Australia reports on retail sales, and Thailand issues figures on foreign reserves.
More from Bloomberg.com: Global Bonds Suffer Worst Monthly Meltdown as $1.7 Trillion Lost
Stocks
Currencies
 Bonds 
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Asian Futures Signal Stock Retreat as Trump Trade Loses Momentum on bloomberg.com