RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions today announced the appointment of Dr. Stephen K. Markham to the position of senior vice president, portfolio management. In this role, Markham will be responsible for product planning and execution of the Toshiba point of sale (POS) product portfolio as well as process management throughout the company. Markham will report to company president and CEO Scott Maccabe.
"I am very excited to have Stephen join us as part of the leadership team," Maccabe said. "Stephen is a recognized expert in the fields of product development, innovation and technology commercialization. I have great confidence that his insights will continue to accelerate growth, keeping Toshiba at the forefront of retail technology for a long time to come."
Prior to joining Toshiba, Dr. Markham held the position of professor at North Carolina State University’s Poole College of Management. He is president of the Product Development & Management Association (PDMA) Research Foundation, founder of the PDMA New Product Development Professional Certification Program, past PDMA officer and board member, and past director of the Technology, Entrepreneurship and Commercialization Program (TEC) and past director of the Center for Innovation Management Studies (CIMS) at Poole College.
"Retailers are looking for new ways to engage customers and create a differentiated and personalized experience both online and in the store," said Maccabe. "Our Toshiba product innovation positions us to continue to transform the retail industry by working with our clients to deliver enriched shopping experiences, actionable insights and frictionless checkout. Stephen and his team of retail experts play an integral role in helping us deliver brilliant commerce."
Learn more about Toshiba’s retail solutions at toshibacommerce.com.
About Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions
Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions is retail’s first choice for integrated in-store solutions and is a global market share leader in retail store technology. With a global team of dedicated business partners, we deliver innovative commerce solutions that transform checkout, provide seamless consumer interactions and optimize retail operations that are changing the retail landscape. To learn more, visit toshibacommerce.com or engage on Twitter @toshibagcs.
Toshiba and related logos are trademarks of Toshiba Corporation or its affiliated companies in Japan, the United States and/or other countries, registered in many jurisdictions worldwide. Copyright (C) 2016 Toshiba TEC Corporation or its affiliated companies.
The information in this document represents current goals and objectives and is subject to change or withdrawal without notice.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005813/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}