STEVENSON, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The securities litigation law firm of Brower Piven, A Professional Corporation, announces that a class action lawsuit has been commenced in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of purchasers of StoneMor Partners L.P. (STON) (“StoneMor” or the “Company”) common units during the period between January 19, 2012 and October 27, 2016, inclusive (the “Class Period”). Investors who wish to become proactively involved in the litigation have until January 20, 2017 to seek appointment as lead plaintiff.
If you wish to choose counsel to represent you and the Class, you must apply to be appointed lead plaintiff and be selected by the Court. The lead plaintiff will direct the litigation and participate in important decisions including whether to accept a settlement for the Class in the action. The lead plaintiff will be selected from among applicants claiming the largest loss from investment in StoneMor common units during the Class Period. Members of the Class will be represented by the lead plaintiff and counsel chosen by the lead plaintiff. No class has yet been certified in the above action.
The complaint accuses the defendants of violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by virtue of the defendants’ failure to disclose during the Class Period that the Company’s reported non-General Accepted Accounting Principles financial metrics were materially misleading and concealed the truth about the Company’s actual financial condition, and that the primary purpose of the Company’s regular debt and equity offerings were to pay distributions to unitholders rather than to pay down indebtedness under the Company’s revolving credit facility as publicly stated.
According to the complaint, following an October 27, 2016 press release announcing a quarterly cash distribution for the third quarter that was a 50% reduction over the previous quarter, the value of StoneMor shares declined significantly.
If you have suffered a loss in excess of $100,000 from investment in StoneMor common units purchased on or after January 19, 2012 and held through the revelation of negative information during and/or at the end of the Class Period and would like to learn more about this lawsuit and your ability to participate as a lead plaintiff, without cost or obligation to you, please visit our website at http://www.browerpiven.com/currentsecuritiescases.html. You may also request more information by contacting Brower Piven either by email at hoffman@browerpiven.com or by telephone at (410) 415-6616. Brower Piven also encourages anyone with information regarding the Company’s conduct during the period in question to contact the firm, including whistleblowers, former employees, shareholders and others.
Attorneys at Brower Piven have extensive experience in litigating securities and other class action cases and have been advocating for the rights of shareholders since the 1980s. If you choose to retain counsel, you may retain Brower Piven without financial obligation or cost to you, or you may retain other counsel of your choice. You need take no action at this time to be a member of the class.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006074/en/