LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
XYPRO® Technology Corporation, the leading provider of security software for HPE NonStop™ Server environments, recently announced a strategic OEM partnership with HPE Security - Data Security, the leading enterprise-class data protection provider. HPE Security – Data Security now includes the XYGATE® Data Protection software as part of their HPE SecureData Enterprise suite.
XYGATE Data Protection (XDP) enhances and optimizes HPE SecureData support for the HPE NonStop Server, allowing full implementation with no changes to applications or to the existing database. XDP intercepts all HPE NonStop file I/Os, seamlessly encrypting or tokenizing data as it is written to disk, and decrypting or de-tokenizing data as it is read from disk. XDP also provides full HPE NonStop scalability, support for all HPE NonStop database types, support for any HPE NonStop supported language, both native and non-native applications and has built in access controls and auditing.
“Having partnered with Voltage Security, and now HPE Security, for over 4 years, we’re very pleased to be able to announce the next step in our products’ integration. The extensive capabilities of HPE SecureData together with the flexibility and optimization provided by XDP make these two solutions an unbeatable combination for any HPE NonStop customer wishing to protect their sensitive data across the enterprise, and a perfect fit for these two complementary technologies,” says Andrew Price, VP Technology with XYPRO.
About XYPRO Technology Corporation
XYPRO® Technology Corporation was founded in 1983 to provide consulting services and software products to companies who manage and transport business-critical data on a large or very large scale. Committed to developing mutual respect and accomplishment, XYPRO delivers products and services that help people comprehensively enhance their professional lives and that help companies improve their competitive edge via greater efficiency.
About HPE Security – Data Security
HPE Security – Data Security, is the leading data protection provider, delivering secure, scalable, and proven data-centric encryption, tokenization and key management solutions, enabling our customers to effectively combat new and emerging security threats. Our powerful data protection solutions allow any company to seamlessly secure all types of sensitive corporate and customer information, wherever it resides, while efficiently meeting regulatory compliance and privacy requirements.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005226/en/