BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Spreadshirt, the e-commerce platform for spreading ideas on something tangible, has heavily invested in their core technology creating a new Partner Area that allows for simple, fast, and intuitive international publishing. Spreadshirt is the only company to offer three different models on one platform: selling via marketplaces, via white-label e-commerce shops, and via the create-your-own technology. As partners and their content are the heart of the Spreadshirt platform, steep improvements to make merchandizing easy are a high priority. This recent technology milestone moves the Spreadshirt community closer to the goal of publishing any idea everywhere in less than 60 seconds.
The Partner Area acts as a command center for more than 70,000 partners worldwide to manage their ideas, products, and shops. It is now live, and feedback from partners describe it as simple, fun, and fast due to:
The new Partner Area enhancements empower Spreadshirt´s Marketplace unit to surpass the RedBubble platform and strengthen the Merchandizing Services unit to outperform TeeSpring.
“The new Partner Area is a major achievement for future proofing and revolutionizing the Spreadshirt platform. A glance at the surface of our tweaked platform does not reveal the tremendous effort and platform restructuring that has been underway since 2014. Numerous teams toiled in parallel to ensure that multiple pieces and backend components work together smoothly. As our development is agile, the Partner Area will improve with each future iteration and there is still a lot up our sleeve,” notes Spreadshirt CTO Guido Laures.
The Spreadshirt grand plan is poised to unfold in 2017 as powered by a superior Partner Area enabling international publishing and a devoted, creative, and innovative technology team.
About SpreadshirtSpreadshirt, an innovative global e-commerce platform for print-on-demand apparel and accessories empowers everyone to easily buy, sell, create and share their ideas on over 175 different products. Examples of spreading it with Spreadshirt include social influencers from all genres such as gaming, YouTube creators, entertainment, non-profit organizations and over 70,000 partners.
Founded in 2002, Spreadshirt is active in 18 markets, available in 12 languages, and operates five global production sites. In 2015, Spreadshirt hit global revenue of approximately $105 million, printed more than 3.6 million items, and shipped to 180 countries.
www.spreadshirt.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005212/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}