HONG KONG--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Freetech Road Recycling Technology (Holdings) Limited (“Freetech”, or the “Group;” stock code: HK.6888), a leading asphalt pavement maintenance (the “APM”) integrated solution provider, announced that the Group had successfully completed the country road maintenance project in Baochang Town,Taipusi Banner,Xilingol League in Inner Mongolia.
Baochang Town is located in the middle part of Taipusi Banner,Xilingol League, which is positioned as the political, economic and cultural center. This project involved three major roads, namely Baochang Street, Heping Street and Chaha’er Street. Leveraging on the international leading and environment-friendly recycling technology, the Group efficiently conducted road maintenance work and did not produce any bad affect on the lives of residents who resided the towns and villages along the road thanks to the Group's multiple advantages. One advantage is that the construction speed of Freetech modular series equipment was quite fast, capable of completing more than 2km per day; the second one is Freetech modular series equipment used the patented heating and harrowing loose technology without milling road, producing dust or noise during the maintenance work comparing with the traditional methods which will generate lots of dust and noise. It gained the recognitions from the owners and the public conformably. In addition, in the maintenance section, Baochang Street is a two-way six-lane road with a large traffic volume, Freetech’s professional construction team and scientific management system ensured the safety of efficient construction.
The successful completion of this project reflects the advantages of the Group's technology can be effectively utilized in the township level municipal road. In the future, the Group will continue to expand its business scope and bring new profit growth points to investors.
About Freetech Road Recycling Technology (Holdings) Limited (Stock Code: HK.6888)
Freetech Road Recycling Technology is a leading integrated solution provider using the Hot-in-Place recycling technology in the asphalt pavement maintenance industry renowned for its Road Doctor brand. As of 30 June 2016, the Group owned 113 registered patents and had 15 pending patent applications in Hot-in-Place Recycling Technology and related equipment. The Group has also established 12 joint ventures and associates and appointed 12 franchisees across China including Hunan, Inner Mongolia, Jiangsu, Fujian, Xinjiang and Guangdong in order to expand its customer base across the country.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006449/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}