TULSA, Okla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Williams (WMB) President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Armstrong is scheduled to present at the Wells Fargo Securities 2016 Pipeline, MLP and Utility Symposium in New York on Tuesday, Dec. 6 at approximately 9:20 a.m. EST.
A link to the live webcast of Armstrong’s presentation, along with slides for viewing and downloading, will be available at www.williams.com prior to Armstrong’s scheduled presentation time.
About Williams
Williams (WMB) is a premier provider of large-scale infrastructure connecting U.S. natural gas and natural gas products to growing demand for cleaner fuel and feedstocks. Headquartered in Tulsa, Okla., Williams owns approximately 60 percent of Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ), including all of the 2 percent general-partner interest. Williams Partners is an industry-leading, large-cap master limited partnership with operations across the natural gas value chain from gathering, processing and interstate transportation of natural gas and natural gas liquids to petchem production of ethylene, propylene and other olefins. With major positions in top U.S. supply basins, Williams Partners owns and operates more than 33,000 miles of pipelines system wide – including the nation’s largest volume and fastest growing pipeline – providing natural gas for clean-power generation, heating and industrial use. Williams Partners’ operations touch approximately 30 percent of U.S. natural gas. www.williams.com
Portions of this document may constitute “forward-looking statements” as defined by federal law. Although the company believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the “safe harbor” protections provided under the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in the company’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006397/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}