DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "North America Foam Blowing Agents Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2020" report to their offering.
Foam blowing agents refers to the additives that produce cellular structure in the substrate through foaming process. The foam blowing agents market in North America is expected to grow, due to large base of end-user industries for polymer foams and high demand of blowing agents in the manufacturing of PU foam. The global warming and ozone layer depletion are the major environmental challenges across the globe. The U.S. government is framing stringent environmental regulations, in order to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. The development of low GWP and zero/low ODP blowing agents is creating abundant opportunities for the growth of the market in the region.
Based on application, the North America foam blowing agents market comprises polyurethane (PU) foam, polystyrene foam, phenolic foam, and others. The PU foam segment is further segmented into PU spray, rigid PUF injected, rigid PUF discontinuous panel, rigid PUF continuous laminate/boardstock, PUF integral skin, rigid PUF residential appliances, rigid PUF block for pipe sections, rigid PUF continuous block, and flexible PU foam. The demand for blowing agents in PU spray foam is increasing, due to increasing demand of PU spray as roof and wall insulation in the agricultural, commercial and residential structures.
Some of the key companies operating in the North American foam blowing agents market include Arkema S.A., Daikin Industries Ltd., Exxon Mobil Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., Sinochem Group, Linde AG, Zeon Corporation, Solvay S.A. and Harp International Ltd.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. North America Foam Blowing Agents Market Size And Forecast (2011-2020)
5. North America Foam Blowing Agents Market, By Application Type
6. North America Product Based Foam Blowing Agents Market, By Application Type
7. Competitive Positioning Analysis
8. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
9. Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/pvnzgm/north_america

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005936/en/