DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today, TodoModo Group, a Dallas-based leader in power generation and energy consulting, announced the formation of a new TodoModo business, Energinex. The new venture will be focused on power plant and lean outage services. Hector López Partida, CEO of Powerlean, based in Monterrey, Mexico, will become Managing Partner of the newly formed U.S. subsidiary. Energinex, a minority-owned business, will deliver improved maintenance outage services with reduced cost and cycle time while maximizing efficiency and safety of outages in the U.S. power generation segment.
Energinex Managing Partner López Partida, a mechanical and electrical engineer with more than 17 years of Power Generation industry experience, is also the founder of Powerlean. The company helps customers improve and optimize outage planning and execution with a toolkit that includes LEAN, Six Sigma and Project Management Institute (PMI) methodologies. These proven methodologies combined with the latest technologies are designed to generate measurable and sustainable results to customer outages and ongoing plant maintenance.
“The Energinex team has more than 100 years of combined power generation experience in more than 100 countries on more than 5,000 power generations sites,” said Luis Manuel Ramírez, CEO of TodoModo Group. “Hector is the perfect partner to help us serve clients at utilities and industrial complex power islands. Under the newly formed Energinex business, we will leverage our combined expertise and depth of experience to expand our offerings into analytics, intelligent solutions and operational excellence for continuous improvement within the power industry.”
Lean Outage, led by Energinex’s consulting team and its CEO, Luis Manuel Ramírez, is a process that reinforces and improves the planning and execution of outages and ensures that optimal results are sustainable long-term. A Lean Outage can help drive cost reductions, increase productivity, and positively impact quality and safety cultures.
“For us at Powerlean, partnering with TodoModo Group is a great opportunity to expand our operations to the international market. Power plants around the globe will benefit from our Lean Outage methodology. Through Energinex’s talent network and services capabilities, we help drive the energy sector to a new level of outage performance,” said Hector López.
Energinex will debut at next week’s POWER-GEN International conference in Orlando, Florida, December 13-15, 2016. Luis Manuel Ramírez and Hector López Partida will be at booth #3926 to showcase the new company and its lean consulting offerings.
ABOUT POWER-GEN INTERNATIONAL:
As the World's Largest Power Generation Event, POWER-GEN International is the industry leader in providing comprehensive coverage of the trends, technologies and issues facing the generation sector. More than 1,400 companies from all sectors of the industry exhibit each year to benefit from the exposure to more than 20,000 attendees. Displaying a wide variety of products and services, POWER-GEN International represents a horizontal look at the industry with key emphasis on new solutions and innovations for the future.
ABOUT POWERLEAN:
Founded with the objective of improving the productivity of the Energy Sector Power Plant Outages, Powerlean developed a methodology that improves productivity, removes waste from Outage Processes and Avoids Rework. Combining LEAN principles, project management best practices and extensive 16 year turbine experience from its founder, Hector López Partida, developed an innovative “LEAN OUTAGE Methodology” which is designed to help customers transform the way in which they plan and execute planned outages.
ABOUT TODOMODO GROUP:
Led by a seasoned team of service and equipment industry executives and founded by Luis Manuel Ramírez, TodoModo Group is a truly unique company specializing in business transformations through advisory, portfolio and consulting services for experienced C-Suite executives. For more information on the Dallas-based company, go to todomodogroup.com and follow company news on LinkedIn and Twitter or like on Facebook.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005390/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}