CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has downgraded two classes and affirmed eight classes of Credit Suisse First Boston Mortgage Securities Corp., commercial mortgage pass-through certificates series 2004-C2. A detailed list of rating actions follows at the end of this press release.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The affirmations of classes D through K reflect full coverage of these classes by defeased collateral. The downgrades of class N and O reflect realized losses. As of the November 2016 distribution date, the pool's aggregate principal balance has been reduced by 93.5% to $63 million from $966.8 million at issuance. The pool has experienced $16.7 million (1.7% of the original pool balance) in realized losses to date. Interest shortfalls are currently affecting classes K through P.
Defeased Collateral: There are two defeased loans accounting for 91.7% of the pool.
Pool Concentration: The pool is concentrated with two defeased loans, one performing loan (1.3%) and two real estate owned (REO) assets (7.0%) with the special servicer.
Specially Serviced Assets: The downgrades of class N and O reflect experienced losses from a specially serviced asset that was liquidated in October 2016. Losses from the 119,061-square foot (sf) suburban medical office building located in Evergreen Park, IL were higher than expected.
The largest contributor to expected losses is a 64 unit multi-family property located in Wayne, MI, roughly 20 miles from Detroit. The loan was transferred to the special servicer in September 2014 for imminent default and foreclosure was filed. The servicer obtained title to the property and became REO in October 2016. There is no disposition timeline at this time as the servicer is working on stabilizing the asset and addressing deferred maintenance. The property is 83% occupied according to the June 2016 rent roll.
The second largest contributor to expected losses is 16,800-sf retail property located in Puyallup, WA, approximately 36 miles south of Seattle. The loan was transferred to special servicer in February 2013 due to payment default. The loan had previously been in special servicing in 2009 for payment default, but was brought current in early 2011 and returned to the master servicer in mid-2012. A forbearance agreement could not be reached with the borrower and foreclosure was completed in May 2014. The property is now REO, but there are no immediate disposition plans at this time. Per the servicer, the asset is currently in a value-add strategy as tenants are sought to lease the vacant space and the servicer addresses deferred maintenance issues. As of October 2016, the property was reported to be 61% occupied.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Outlooks on classes D through H remain Stable due to increasing credit enhancement and continued paydown. The balance of these classes is covered by the defeased collateral. The outlook for Class J has been revised to Negative from Stable as a downgrade may be possible if interest shortfalls affect this class. The Class K has been revised to Stable from Negative and is fully covered by defeased collateral, but a rating cap of 'Asf' has been applied due to interest shortfalls currently affecting the class. Class L has also been revised to Stable from Negative. However, although the class is nearly covered by defeased collateral, future upgrades are unlikely given the interest shortfalls, thin subordinate class and reliance on disposition of specially serviced assets to repay the class in full.
DUE DILIGENCE USAGE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10
No third party due diligence was provided or reviewed in relation to this rating.
Fitch downgrades the following classes:
--$0 class N to 'Dsf' from 'Csf', RE 0%;
--$0 class O to 'Dsf' from 'Csf'; RE 0%.
Fitch affirms the following classes and revises Rating Outlooks as indicated:
--$6 million class J at 'AAAsf', Outlook revised to Negative from Stable;
--$3.6 million class K at 'Asf', Outlook revised to Stable from Positive;
--$3.6 million class L at 'BBsf'; Outlook revised to Stable from Positive.
Fitch affirms the following classes:
--$4.7 million class D at 'AAAsf', Outlook Stable;
--$9.7 million class E at 'AAAsf', Outlook Stable;
--$9.7 million class F at 'AAAsf', Outlook Stable;
--$9.7 million class G at 'AAAsf', Outlook Stable;
--$10.9 million class H at 'AAAsf', Outlook Stable.
The class A-1, A-1-A, A-2, B and C certificates have paid in full. Fitch does not rate the class M and P certificates. Fitch previously withdrew the ratings on the interest-only class A-X and A-SP certificates.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Rating Caps and Limitations in Global Structured Finance Transactions (pub. 16 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882401
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
North America and Asia-Pacific Multiborrower CMBS Surveillance Criteria (pub. 01 Dec 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/891159
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016056
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016056
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006286/en/