LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Technavio analysts forecast the global pulse generator market to grow at a CAGR of more than 1% during the forecast period, according to their latest report.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005018/en/ 
The research study covers the present scenario and growth prospects of the global pulse generator market for 2016-2020. The report presents the major vendors that manufacture pulse generators in regions such as the Americas, APAC, and EMEA.
Pulse generators are primarily used as test and measurement electronic equipment. Several other electronic test equipment, including logic analyzers and oscilloscopes, are also used to measure the behavior of electronic devices, and detect defects in newly designed circuitry. A logic analyzer and an oscilloscope can only take a measurement when they receive a signal. Electronic devices such as amplifiers do not produce signals but amplify the signals they receive from a sensor. This generates the need for an instrument that can generate signals as well as make measurements.
Request a sample report: http://www.technavio.com/request-a-sample?report=54840
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
Technavio hardware and semiconductor analysts highlight the following three factors that are contributing to the growth of the global pulse generator market:
Growing complexity of ICs
Designers and engineers are continuously developing new methodologies and techniques to keep pace with the increasing level of integration and to manage more circuitry within the same size and at the same cost. This is leading to growing complexity of ICs wherein several active and passive components are being integrated on a single chip.
Sunil Kumar Singh, a lead semiconductor equipment research analyst at Technavio, says, “Rapid technological advances such as the transition from 90-nm technology node to 22-nm technology node, increasing adoption of FinFET architecture, and the emergence of 3D integration technology present a strong growth opportunity for the global pulse generator market.”
Growing technological convergence
Rapid technological developments in consumer electronic devices, healthcare equipment, military and defense equipment, and telecommunications equipment are leading to high level of functional integration. These devices are increasingly used as multi-functional terminals that offer a wide range of new applications on a single platform.
“Industries that extensively use power semiconductor devices are driving the demand for multiple features on a single platform. These devices mainly use a combination of a power IC with a couple of MOSFETs either as a monolithic device or as a system-in-a-package,” adds Sunil.
Emergence of LTE wireless standards
With the emergence of LTE wireless standards such as 4G and 5G, consumers are now opting for bandwidth-hungry applications and services. The growth in internet bandwidth is fueled by two factors: the proliferation of mobile computing devices with new capabilities (such as smartphones, tablets, and wearables) and the emergence of disruptive technologies that shift the bandwidth usage by shifting the way users access the network.
The demand for mobile computing devices is growing among mobile users and business travelers who have a high need for portability and connectivity. Consumers and businesspersons also want to connect multiple devices to the internet at a lower cost and high data rate.
Top vendors:
Browse Related Reports:
Do you need a report on a market in a specific geographical cluster or country but can’t find what you’re looking for? Don’t worry, Technavio also takes client requests. Please contact enquiry@technavio.com with your requirements and our analysts will be happy to create a customized report just for you.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. The company develops over 2000 pieces of research every year, covering more than 500 technologies across 80 countries. Technavio has about 300 analysts globally who specialize in customized consulting and business research assignments across the latest leading edge technologies.
Technavio analysts employ primary as well as secondary research techniques to ascertain the size and vendor landscape in a range of markets. Analysts obtain information using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches, besides using in-house market modeling tools and proprietary databases. They corroborate this data with the data obtained from various market participants and stakeholders across the value chain, including vendors, service providers, distributors, re-sellers, and end-users.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005018/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005018/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}