SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Arista Networks (ANET) today announced that Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) McNamara has issued an Initial Determination (ID) in International Trade Commission (ITC) Investigation No. 337-TA-945. Cisco’s original complaint alleged that Arista’s products infringed six patents – U.S. Patent Nos. 6,377,577, 7,023,853, 7,061,875, 7,460,492, 7,224,668 and 8,051,211. The ALJ found no violation with respect to four of these patents, including the ‘853, ‘875, ‘492 and ‘211, while finding a violation with respect to the ‘577 and ‘668 patents.
“We appreciate the tireless work of the ALJ in this preliminary decision and are pleased that she found in our favor on four of the asserted patents,” said Marc Taxay, Senior Vice President, General Counsel of Arista Networks. “We do, however, strongly believe that our products do not infringe any of the patents under investigation and look forward to presenting our case to the full Commission.”
Arista intends to request a review of the full Commission of the ALJ’s findings. If granted, the full Commission is expected to issue a final determination on this matter in April 2017. While still subject to review, Arista intends to fully address the infringement findings with design-arounds for its products.
Notably, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board has instituted inter partes reviews to determine the validity of all of the claims of the ‘577 and ‘668 patents that the ALJ found Arista to infringe. The PTAB will issue its decisions on or before June 11, 2017.
About Arista Networks
Arista Networks was founded to pioneer and deliver software-driven cloud networking solutions for large data center storage and computing environments. Arista’s award-winning platforms, ranging in Ethernet speeds from 10 to 100 gigabits per second, redefine scalability, agility and resilience. Arista has shipped more than ten million cloud networking ports worldwide with CloudVision and EOS, an advanced network operating system. Committed to open standards, Arista is a founding member of the 25/50GbE consortium. Arista Networks products are available worldwide directly and through partners.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, statements regarding the effectiveness of alternative product implementations to address the alleged infringement of certain Cisco patents as well as our ability to continue to provide products to our customers. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements including: the ability of Arista to import products or related components, the ability of Arista to develop alternative design implementations that are determined to be non-infringing the asserted patents, if contested in the ITC or U.S. Customs, and the ability to obtain favorable determinations by the ITC or U.S. Customs that such alternative product implementations are not covered by the ITC remedial orders, as well as other risks stated in our filings with the SEC available on Arista's website at www.arista.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Arista disclaims any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005784/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}