LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Houlihan Lokey, Inc. (HLI), the global investment bank, today announced that Anthony Forshaw has joined the firm as a Managing Director in the Capital Markets Group. He is based in London.
Mr. Forshaw joins Houlihan Lokey following a 25-year career at Deutsche Bank, where he held a number of roles, most recently serving as a Managing Director in the Corporate Finance group. He was responsible for a broad range of capital markets activities including the origination, structuring, and execution of large-cap, sub-investment grade financings, crossover/IPO loan-related financings, and related interest rate, currency, and cross-border risk structuring. Over the course of his career, Mr. Forshaw has helped lead some of the largest-ever LBOs executed in the EMEA region as well as some of the largest infrastructure transactions arranged in Europe.
“Houlihan Lokey was early to address the structural shift in the markets toward financing solutions from nontraditional capital providers. We combine the industry relationships, structuring expertise, and market insight required to navigate these complex and often opaque markets,” said Scott Adelson, Global Co-Head of Corporate Finance. “Tony’s deep expertise gained over more than three decades in the industry, his vast relationships, and his unique creativity for structuring client solutions make him the ideal banker to lead the continued expansion of our Capital Markets business across Europe,” he added.
“Houlihan Lokey’s growth trajectory over the past few years, particularly in Europe, is incredibly exciting and reflective of the firm’s dedication to establishing itself as a market leader across a diverse range of independent advisory services,” said Mr. Forshaw. “I’m delighted to have joined the firm, and I look forward to continuing to build-out this leading Capital Markets team,” he continued.
With more than 30 professionals worldwide, Houlihan Lokey’s Capital Markets Group is the largest independent private financing team in financial services, focused on delivering its clients bespoke financing solutions backed by superior market knowledge and execution capabilities. In 2015, the Group raised over $2.6 billion for clients across 20 transactions. In Europe, Houlihan Lokey now has more than 100 Corporate Finance bankers focused on M&A, Capital Markets, and Illiquid Financial Assets advice located across the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, and the Netherlands, as well as in Italy through its joint venture with Leonardo & Co. S.p.A.
Houlihan Lokey (HLI) is a global investment bank with expertise in mergers and acquisitions, capital markets, financial restructuring, valuation, and strategic consulting. The firm serves corporations, institutions, and governments worldwide with offices in the United States, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. Independent advice and intellectual rigor are hallmarks of our commitment to client success across our advisory services. Houlihan Lokey is ranked as the No. 1 M&A advisor for all U.S. transactions, the No. 1 global restructuring advisor, and the No. 1 global M&A fairness opinion advisor over the past 15 years, according to Thomson Reuters. For more information, please visit www.HL.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005231/en/