LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
KB Home (KBH) today announced that Chris Apostolopoulos has been promoted to regional president over the company’s California markets. In this role, he is responsible for overseeing the builder’s local division teams and operations throughout the state, including land acquisitions, land development, home construction, customer service, purchasing, sales, and marketing.
“I am pleased to announce Chris Apostolopoulos’ appointment as regional president of our California operations,” said Jeffrey Mezger, KB Home’s chairman, president and chief executive officer. “A second generation homebuilder, Chris brings more than 28 years of homebuilding experience to his expanded role at KB Home. As our division president of the Bay Area and then our regional general manager for Northern California, he has done a tremendous job over the last eight years in growing one of KB Home’s most complex and successful business units. With his strong managerial background and extensive knowledge of our business, we believe Chris’ capable leadership will help accelerate our growth across the state.”
Apostolopoulos joined KB Home nearly eighteen years ago with a broad background spanning mid-rise, multifamily and traditional single-family home development. Prior to being named division president in 2005 and regional general manager for Northern California in 2014, he held a number of leadership roles across a variety of areas, including land acquisitions, forward planning, land development and operations. Under his leadership, KB Home’s Bay Area division has held the #1 market share position since 2013, according to Metrostudy. A graduate of the University of California, Davis; Apostolopoulos is a board member of HomeAid Northern California and Home Builders Association of Northern California’s Chairman’s Council, and also serves on the policy advisory board of the Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics at the University of California, Berkeley.
About KB Home
KB Home (KBH) is one of the largest and most recognized homebuilders in the United States and an industry leader in sustainability, building innovative and highly energy- and water-efficient new homes. Founded in 1957 and the first homebuilder listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company has built nearly 600,000 homes for families from coast to coast. Distinguished by its personalized homebuilding approach, KB Home lets each buyer choose their lot location, floor plan, décor choices, design features and other special touches that matter most to them. To learn more about KB Home, call 888-KB-HOMES, visit www.kbhome.com or connect on Facebook.com/KBHome or Twitter.com/KBHome.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005326/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}