LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CENTURY 21 Peak (http://c21peak.com), a real estate brokerage company and one of the Peak Corporate Network group of companies offering comprehensive real estate services nationwide, announced today the acquisition of the assets of American Inland Empire, R.E., Inc. dba “Weichert Realtors 24/7” as part of its bold five-year initiative to expand the company’s presence and market share throughout Southern California.
The acquisition of this brokerage—a market leader in San Bernardino since 1997—represents a more than 20% increase in CENTURY 21 Peak’s continually growing network of real estate professionals. Stephen Yeager—formerly the CEO of CENTURY 21 Mexico and Vice President of CENTURY 21 South America—will join CENTURY 21 Peak as the manager of the new Upland branch, overseeing the group’s growth and expansion in the Inland Empire. Sandy Kohler, branch manager for Weichert Realtors 24/7, recognized for a 30-year legacy of sales and training among Upland real estate professionals, will continue with CENTURY 21 Peak, assisting in the training of new and existing personnel. The office will continue operations at 1241 E. 16th St. Upland, Calif., 91784.
CENTURY 21 Peak’s owners, Eli Tene and Gil Priel, said the acquisition came after significant research into the best performing and most reputable offices in San Bernardino area.
“This office has earned a reputation throughout the Inland Empire for offering an unparalleled level of customer service and unmatched insight into their community’s market trends,” said Tene and Priel. "The acquisition of a brokerage in this booming market is integral to our ambitious plan for growth throughout Southern California.”
The residential and commercial branches of CENTURY 21 Peak have added several offices since its affiliation began with CENTURY 21 last year: a commercial real estate office in Brentwood in September, a residential office in North Hollywood in March and a residential office in Granada Hills in October 2015.
“Kudos to the leadership team at CENTURY 21 Peak as they continue to combine a big vision with bold action to rapidly grow their presence in the highly competitive markets throughout Southern California and to continuing the brand’s overall market momentum and worldwide growth,” said Rick Davidson, president and chief executive officer, Century 21 Real Estate LLC. “Since affiliating with CENTURY 21® last year, the overall growth at CENTURY 21 Peak is raising eyebrows throughout the industry and, more importantly, they have doubled down on their commitment to deliver exceptional results for clients and to delivering on our value proposition of honesty, integrity and the highest standards of quality service.”
With more than 25 years’ experience in real estate, Steve Yeager has long practiced the consumer-centric concept that he says parallels the CENTURY 21 Peak philosophy. “This market is rapidly changing as the consumers become more sophisticated,” he said, adding that the agent base is changing as well, and requires more of what CENTURY 21 Peak has to offer in such areas as technology, training and management.
CENTURY 21 Peak earned the 2015 CENTURY 21 Gold Medallion award in recognition of being one of the top-performing affiliates in CENTURY 21’s network of 6,950 independent broker offices in 76 countries.
CENTURY 21 Peak and CENTURY 21 Peak Commercial (www.c21peakcommercial.com) are independently owned and operated franchise affiliates of Century 21 Real Estate LLC (CENTURY21.com), the iconic brand comprised of approximately 6,950 independently owned and operated franchised broker offices in 76 countries and territories worldwide with more than 104,000 independent sales professionals.
Century 21 Real Estate LLC is a subsidiary of Realogy Holdings Corp. (NYSE: RLGY), a global leader in real estate franchising and provider of real estate brokerage, relocation and settlement services.
About the Peak Corporate Network: As a leading authority in the real estate industry, the Peak Corporate Network group of companies (http://peakcorp.com) provide a full array of comprehensive real estate services nationwide including residential and commercial brokerage services, residential and commercial mortgage financing, insurance services, short sales, foreclosure processing and 1031 exchange. The Peak Corporate Network is a brand that represents a group of related, separate legal entities, each providing its unique set of real estate services.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006248/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}