MURRAY HILL, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Advent Intermodal Solutions, a leading provider of IT-based intermodal solutions, today announced the addition of Allen Thomas to its leadership team as Chief Strategy Officer. In this newly created role, Thomas is responsible for leading the company’s long-term strategic planning, including product positioning, business development and industry partnerships.
“Due to Advent’s continued success, we are expanding our leadership team to better support long-term strategy development,” said Parvez Mansuri, CEO of Advent. “As our platform evolves and we continue adding value to the businesses we serve, it is important that we consider their long-term objectives. Thomas has a proven track record of leadership and I am confident that he will successfully guide Advent’s strategic planning.”
Thomas has nearly 20 years of experience leading transformative technological innovation, business development and operational execution within the container supply chain. Prior to joining Advent, Thomas held a variety of leadership positions at Crux Systems, a technology startup providing a platform to reduce congestion and increase cargo velocity in U.S. ports. Thomas also served as vice president of business strategy for the Marine & Ports Business Unit of ABB Group, where he was responsible for global market strategy and business development of a $600 million integrated terminal automation, electrification and service portfolio.
As an industry thought leader on digital transformation and automation systems for ports, terminals and railroads worldwide, Thomas is routinely featured in trade publications such as World Cargo News, Journal of Commerce, Container Management and Port Strategy and frequently speaks at events hosted by Lloyds Group, Informa, and the Journal of Commerce. Thomas is also a member of several industry organizations including the Intermodal Association of North America (IANA) and the Port Equipment Manufacturers Association (PEMA), where he served as the Chairman of the Automation and Control Technologies Committee for five years.
“I have been entrenched in supply chain management for many years now, and Advent’s platform is a truly innovative solution for managing all aspects of the supply chain,” said Thomas. “I am excited to join a team that is constantly looking for ways to improve solutions to ensure they are adding value to their customers. I look forward to managing the long-term planning for Advent’s burgeoning business.”
About Advent Intermodal Solutions
Advent Intermodal Solutions is a globally recognized organization offering IT-based solutions and consulting services to port authorities, marine terminals, shipping lines, cargo owners, and service providers worldwide. More than 40 terminals, 80 shipping lines, and 100,000 users trust Advent for their software solutions, custom development services, and EDI management offerings. For more information about Advent Intermodal Solutions, visit www.adventinc.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006225/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}