NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Link to Fitch Ratings' Report: AMMC CLO 15 Limited/Corp -- Appendixhttps://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/891850
Fitch Ratings has assigned the following ratings to AMMC CLO 15 Limited/Corp (AMMC 15):
--$100,000,000 class A1-R loans 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$0 class A1-R notes 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$220,000,000 class A2-R notes 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$4,000,000 class AX-R notes 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
Class A1 and AX notes have been marked 'PIF.'
Fitch does not rate the class B1-R, B-F-R, C1-R, C-F-R, D, E or subordinated notes.
TRANSACTION SUMMARY
AMMC 15 issued class A1-R, A2-R, AX-R, B1-R, B-F-R, C1-R and C-F-R notes (collectively, the refinancing notes) and incurred the class A1-R loans (together with the refinancing notes, the refinancing obligations) and applied the net proceeds thereof to redeem the existing class AX, A1, B1, B-F,C1 and C-F notes at par (plus accrued interest) on the refinancing date of Dec. 9, 2016. The class D, E and subordinated notes were not refinanced.
The refinancing notes generally have the same terms as the previously outstanding classes; except that the stated coupons have changed and the $320 million class A1 notes are refinanced with the issuance of $0 million class A1-R notes, $220 million class A2-R notes and the incurrence of $100 million of class A1-R loans. The class AX-R B1-R, B-F-R, C1-R and C-F-R notes were issued in the same amounts as the previously outstanding class AX, B1, B-F, C1, and C-F notes.
--Class AX-R notes' spread reduced by 5 basis points (bps) to 1.25%
--Class A1-R loans, and A1-R and A2-R notes' spread reduced by 18 bps to 1.35%.
--Class B1-R notes' spread reduced by 55 bps to 1.90%
--Class B-F-R notes' coupon reduced by 89 bps to 3.744%
--Class C1-R notes' spread reduced by 66 bps to 2.80%
--Class C-F-R notes' coupon reduced by 87.9 bps to 4.69%
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The reduction in the cost of the liabilities is viewed as credit positive for class AX-R, A1-R, A2-R notes and A1-R loans (collectively, the class A debt) and the transaction continues to display stable performance since the last review in October 2016. The CLO will remain in its reinvestment period through December 2018, all coverage tests continue to pass and the rating default rate (RDR) and rating loss rate (RLR) for the current portfolio, plus losses to date, are still lower than the RDR and RLR modelled at close. As a result, the modelled Fitch stressed portfolio at close continues to serve as a proxy, and updated cash flow model analysis was not conducted for this rating action. Fitch has determined that the rating on the class A debt shall be assigned at the same rating level ('AAAsf'/Outlook Stable) as the original class AX and A1 notes.
The loan portfolio par amount plus principal cash is approximately $497 million, as of the October 2016 trustee report. The weighted average life test is approximately 4.8 years compared to a maximum of 6.12. All other collateral quality tests are in compliance and there are no defaulted assets in the portfolio. The Fitch weighted average rating factor remains at 'B+'/'B', based on Fitch's Issuer Default Rating (IDR) Equivalency Mapping. Additionally, approximately 91.6% of the portfolio has strong recovery prospects or a Fitch-assigned Recovery Rating of 'RR2' or higher.
AMMC 15 is executing the partial refinancing via the First Supplemental Indenture, which included the incurrence of the class A1-R loans. The lender of the class A1-R loans have the option to convert all or a portion of the outstanding loan principal amount into an equivalent principal amount of class A1-R notes. On the conversion date, the class A1-R loan amount to be converted will cease to be outstanding and shall be deemed to have been repaid in full, and the class A-1 note balance will be increased accordingly. All accrued and unpaid interest on the converted class A1-R loans will be deemed to have been outstanding as of the conversion date on the class A1-R notes, and the class A1-R notes will accrue interest at the class A1-R note interest rate thereafter. No class A1-R notes or any other classes may be converted into class A1-R loans. This conversion option may also be removed by the consent of a majority of class A debtholders, so long as any class A debt remains outstanding.
The Stable Outlook on each class of debt reflects the expectation that each class has sufficient levels of credit protection to withstand potential deterioration in the credit quality of the portfolio in stress scenarios commensurate with such class's rating.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The ratings of the notes may be sensitive to the following: asset defaults, significant negative credit migration, and lower than historically observed recoveries for defaulted assets. Fitch conducted rating sensitivity analysis on the closing date of the AMMC CLO 15 Ltd./Corp., incorporating increased levels of defaults and reduced levels of recovery rates among other sensitivities. Initial Key Rating Drivers and Rating Sensitivity are further described in the New Issue Report published on Jan. 5, 2016.
DUE DILIGENCE USAGE
Form ABS Due Diligence-15E was not provided to, or reviewed by, Fitch in relation to this rating action.
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMS
A description of the transaction's Representations, Warranties, and Enforcement Mechanisms (RW&Es) that are disclosed in the offering document and which relate to the underlying asset pool is available by accessing the appendix referenced under "Related Research" below. Offering documents for U.S. CLO transactions do not typically include RW&Es that are available to investors and that relate to the asset pool underlying the security. However, the offering document of this transaction refinancing included a draft of the supplemental indenture and the credit agreement as supplemental exhibits, which contain RW&Es related to the underlying asset pool of the CLO. For further information, please see Fitch's Special Report titled Representations, Warranties and Enforcement Mechanisms in Global Structured Finance Transactions,' dated May 31, 2016.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com.
Sources of Information:
The information used to assess these ratings was sourced from periodic trustee reports, the public domain and the arranger, Mizuho Securities USA, Inc.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Global Rating Criteria for CLOs and Corporate CDOs (pub. 09 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/887497
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
Related Research
AMMC CLO 15 Limited/Corp -- Appendix
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/891850
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016273
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016273
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005766/en/