ALEXANDRIA, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fishbowl, the leading customer engagement platform provider for the restaurant industry, and Olo, the leading digital ordering provider for over 160 restaurant brands across the U.S., today announced a partnership and platform integration, enabling restaurant operators to leverage online ordering data as a source for identifying customers and transactions, facilitating more effective engagement, repeat visits and increased sales.
The collaboration between Fishbowl’s customer engagement platform and Olo’s online ordering platform enables restaurant brands to offer a consistent guest experience across all engagement channels, while delivering valuable guest spending and ordering behavior data that can be leveraged to target offers, customize messaging and predict future behavior. Through the integration of eClub, loyalty, promotion, mobile apps, push notification, and ordering platforms, guests can seamlessly manage order ahead, offer wallet, coupon redemption and valuable member points.
“The collaboration between Fishbowl and Olo has been exceptionally helpful in expediting our go-to-market, on-demand strategy,” said Bora Dincer, VP of Technology, Jamba Juice. “They worked together to ease the burden on us and deliver on expectations. This resulted in a seamless consumer experience with our mobile app, ensuring key metrics were captured to be leveraged for future decision making.”
“Our integration with Olo is an exciting extension of the Fishbowl platform, offering guests a seamless experience and providing operators with valuable data,” said Dev Ganesan, CEO of Fishbowl. “Being able to deliver relevant, contextual messaging regardless of how a customer interacts with the brand – in restaurant or remote - is becoming even more mission critical. By uncovering and leveraging insights from guest data, restaurants can more effectively engage guests and create a competitive advantage in an environment where brands are battling for share of wallet and share of stomach.”
“Fishbowl has long been respected for its guest engagement expertise, and we are thrilled that together, we can improve engagement and optimize results for restaurants,” said Noah Glass, Founder & CEO of Olo. “With the majority of restaurant consumption happening off premise, it’s crucial to offer an integrated guest experience through online ordering and delivery services. Our partnership allows brands to offer an optimal experience while gaining valuable, actionable insights that restaurants can use to drive sales and repeat traffic.”
Fishbowl ingests and analyzes ever increasing volumes of structured and unstructured guest data from a myriad of sources, including POS, eClub, social, online ordering, reservations, loyalty, etc. to uncover critical insights, including guest personas and behaviors. Restaurants brands leverage these insights to execute data-driven decisions and personalized marketing, optimizing engagement across all channels.
About Fishbowl
Fishbowl empowers restaurants to become best in class marketers. Through its customer engagement platform, Fishbowl provides deep insights to execute data-driven decisions and personalized marketing that drive brand preference and amplify guest sales and visits. Fishbowl’s highly scalable, SaaS platform ingests data from myriad sources to uncover insights that can be leveraged across integrated marketing channels. Relied on by more than 70,000 restaurant locations to effectively engage guests, Fishbowl is headquartered in Alexandria, VA, with offices in Silicon Valley, UK, and India. For more information, please visit our website, or follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn.
About Olo
Olo helps restaurant brands maximize revenue per square foot by delivering faster, more accurate, and more personal service to their customers. Through beautiful, fully branded digital interfaces, Olo's enterprise-grade ordering platform integrates with the brands' existing systems, opening new digital revenue streams, injected seamlessly into the restaurant's operations. Olo is a pioneer in the industry, beginning with text message ordering on mobile feature phones in 2005. Today, over 30 million consumers use the Olo platform to order ahead and Skip the Line® at the restaurants they love. Clients include Baskin-Robbins (DNKN), Chili's (EAT), Chipotle (CMG), El Pollo Loco (LOCO), Five Guys Burgers & Fries, Jamba Juice (JMBA), Noodles & Company (NDLS), sweetgreen, Wingstop (WING), and more. Learn more at Olo.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006258/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}