PARIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
TRIGO Group, international provider of quality solutions, headquartered in Paris, France, is introducing its new business unit, TRIGO Experts for Quality (TREQ), to provide sophisticated quality expertise services to its customers.
With globalization of supply chains, constant increase of product complexity and continuous search for cost optimized solutions, global manufacturers are looking for innovative and reliable quality solutions to help them to solve their quality challenges in such a demanding and complex context.
TREQ Business Unit offers Quality Expert Consulting, Resident Engineering and Metrology services from experts and consultants who are part of TRIGO’s unique global network of quality professionals across more than 20 countries in Europe, America and Asia, with a dedicated focus on the automotive, aerospace and heavy transportation industries.
This combination of local expertise and global coverage is unique in the industry and shall provide international manufacturers an optimal and cost effective solution to improve their customer quality performance as well as their supplier quality performance.
“The target of TREQ Business Unit is to support its customers along the supply chain with a wide variety of quality services, covering the range from traditional manufacturing processes to the latest technological innovations. We are progressively developing solutions to help our customers improve their efficiency and competitiveness in the ever-changing industrial environment,” says Zsolt Puskás, Executive Vice President of TREQ Business Unit.
About TRIGO Group
Founded in 1997, TRIGO is a multinational company providing operational Quality Management solutions for the manufacturing sector, especially in the transportation industries. With a team of more than 7000 professionals present in 20 countries across 4 continents, TRIGO offers a comprehensive portfolio of Quality Inspection, Engineering and Management Services all along the supply chain.
About TREQ Business Unit
TREQ (TRIGO Experts for Quality) Business Unit is a unique service delivery platform to drive innovations, new engineering and management processes in our customers’ organization with a team of 150+ professionals including experts, consultants and specialists. TREQ Business Unit is delivering Quality Expert Consulting (Consulting, Auditing, and Training), Resident Engineering and Metrology services in Europe, Asia, Latin America and North Africa, as an integrated third party quality service provider.
For more information, please visit: www.trigo-group.com!

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005515/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}