CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed Sirius International Group, Ltd.'s (Sirius) Long-Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'BBB' and senior debt rating at 'BBB-'. Additionally, Fitch has affirmed the Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) ratings of Sirius' operating subsidiaries at 'A-' and published Sirius Bermuda Insurance Company Ltd.'s IFS of 'A-'. The Rating Outlook is Stable. A full list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Fitch's rating rationale for the affirmation of Sirius' ratings reflects the company's established reinsurance franchise, solid earnings, low financial leverage and very strong capitalization. These positive factors are partially offset by CMIG's ownership, Sirius' more moderate business profile, low fixed charge coverage and Fitch's negative sector outlook on global reinsurance.
Fitch considers Sirius to have a moderate business profile with net premiums written of $847.6 million in 2015 and GAAP shareholders' equity of $2.2 billion at Sept. 30, 2016. Although Sirius is relatively small compared to most reinsurers, Fitch views the company as having a strong and established reinsurance franchise (formed in 1945), with a diversified platform of non-life (re)insurance business.
Profitability is very strong, characterized by low and stable combined and operating ratios and high net returns on average common equity, with the most recent five-year averages (2011 - 2015) at 86.7%, 80.6% and 14.2%, respectfully. Sirius posted a GAAP combined ratio of 96.2% for the first nine months of 2016, which included 11.8 points for catastrophe losses, mainly due to the Fort McMurray, Alberta Canada wildfires and the Ecuador earthquake. This compares to 85.1% in 2015, which included a lower 2.5 points of catastrophe losses. Sirius does not expect fourth quarter 2016 losses from Hurricane Matthew to be material to its overall financial condition.
Fitch views Sirius' ownership by China Minsheng Investment Corp., Ltd. (CMIG), a private investment company founded in May 2014, since April 2016 as less strategic than that of its previous owner White Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd. (Long-Term IDR rated 'BBB+'), with a lower level of credit quality and by a company with a limited track record. This creates added uncertainties with respect to Sirius' business and operating profile until there is a period of seasoning under CMIG ownership. Sirius' ratings reflect a one notch adjustment lower due to ownership concerns. Fitch expects that CMIG will maintain a conservative dividend policy with respect to Sirius, preferring to allow capital to grow to support opportunistically expanding the (re)insurance platform.
Sirius' financial leverage ratio continues to be modest at 13.6% at Sept. 30, 2016, down slightly from 14.1% at Dec. 31, 2015 due to a 2% increase in total shareholders' equity. In October 2016, Sirius issued $400 million of 4.6% senior notes due Nov. 1, 2026. The company expects to use the net proceeds from the offering to refinance by year-end 2016 its $389.7 million of senior notes due March 20, 2017. As such, Sirius' financial leverage ratio should remain unchanged following the refinancing. GAAP fixed charge coverage (excluding net realized and unrealized investment gains and losses) has been weak in recent years, averaging a low 3.9x from 2011 - 2015, although statutory fixed charge coverage was an extremely strong 14x for 2016.
Sirius' ratings also reflect Fitch's negative sector outlook on global reinsurance as the sector's fundamentals have deteriorated with declining premium pricing and weakening of terms and conditions, thus limiting organic growth potential. The continued soft market, combined with low investment yields, are promoting adverse profit fundamentals as record capitalization levels drive a heightened competitive reinsurance market environment.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The key rating triggers that could lead to an upgrade include seasoning of ownership by CMIG without any adverse consequences or perceived weakening in CMIG's credit profile; and improvement in business profile while continuing to produce favorable operating results in the challenging reinsurance environment.
The key rating triggers that could lead to a downgrade include:
--Deterioration in reinsurance sector fundamentals or consolidation in the reinsurance landscape that Fitch views as weakening Sirius' competitive position;
--Business profile or overall profitability;
--Sustained combined ratios above 104% or operating ratios above 96%;
--Sizable deterioration in capitalization;
--Significant changes to the operating profile or investment portfolio that increases risk or reduces liquidity; or
--A financial leverage ratio maintained above 32%.
FULL LIST OF RATING ACTIONS
Fitch affirms the following ratings with a Stable Outlook:
Sirius International Group, Ltd.
--Long-Term IDR at 'BBB';
--$400 million 4.6% senior notes due Nov. 1, 2026 at 'BBB-';
--$390 million 6.375% senior notes due March 20, 2017 at
'BBB-';
--$250 million non-cumulative perpetual preference shares at 'BB+'.
Sirius International Insurance Corporation
Sirius America Insurance Company
--Insurer Financial Strength at 'A-'.
Fitch publishes the following rating with a Stable Outlook:
Sirius Bermuda Insurance Company Ltd.
--Insurer Financial Strength 'A-'.
Summary of Financial Statement Adjustments:
Fitch has adjusted Sirius' total capital and financial leverage ratio to include Sirius International Insurance Corporation's (Sirius International) safety reserve balance without any provision for deferred taxes. Sirius International allocates the majority of its pre-tax income, after group contributions (tax-sharing payments), to an untaxed safety reserve account, as permitted under Swedish law. Under GAAP, an amount equal to the safety reserve, net of a related deferred tax liability is classified as shareholders' equity. This deferred tax liability is only required to be paid by Sirius International if it fails to maintain prescribed levels of premium writings and loss reserves in future years. As a result of the indefinite deferral of these taxes, Fitch includes the safety reserve, without any provision for deferred taxes, when calculating available capital for the Prism factor-based capital model and for financial leverage. The noted adjustment did not result in a different rating than had the adjustment not been made, but it is material in how Fitch views capital and financial leverage.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Insurance Rating Methodology (pub. 15 Sep 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/887191
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Formhttps://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016054
Solicitation Statushttps://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016054
Endorsement Policyhttps://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third-party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006280/en/