LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Leumi announced today that Jonathan Graham, Regional Head of Private Banking, has joined the executive board of The Executives of the Los Angeles Jewish Home.
The Executives enhance the dignity and quality of life of seniors at the Los Angeles Jewish Home through personal generosity, involvement and fundraising. Guided by the principles of philanthropy, community and responsibility, the organization supports the nearly 1,000 elderly residents of the Home. Since its inception in 1992, The Executives has raised over $6 million for the Jewish Home.
“Leumi and I share a passion for supporting local organizations that are dedicated to serving the health and well being of our senior communities. The Executives of the Jewish Home for the Aging does exemplary work in this area,” Graham said. “I’m excited to contribute to the continued development of this important organization and to help make a difference in the lives of thousands of seniors across the Los Angeles region. “
Graham has previously assisted the Bank with landing the title sponsorship for the 13th Annual Executives Golf Classic, from which all proceeds went towards the Los Angeles Jewish home. While at Leumi, he has led the expansion of the Private Banking team on the West Coast.
“Jonathan brings the stature of his position at Leumi and experience in business, which we expect will be a great benefit to our efforts at fundraising and community development for the Home,” said Lesley Plachta, Director of Development at the Los Angeles Jewish Home Foundation. “We look forward to Jonathan’s active involvement and leadership in our organization.”
Graham joins more than 400 prominent business and community leaders who come together to raise awareness and funds for the Jewish Home.
For more information on The Executives of the Los Angeles Jewish Home please visit http://www.theexecutives.org/.
About Leumi
Bank Leumi USA (Leumi) is a full-service commercial and private banking institution providing financial services to middle market firms in many industries, focusing specifically on: Commercial & Industrial, Real Estate, Healthcare, High Tech, Media & Entertainment and Water. Leumi provides a full array of private banking solutions to domestic and international clients and offers a broad range of securities and insurance products through its brokerage subsidiary, Leumi Investment Services Inc. More information about Leumi is available at www.leumiusa.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005103/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}