MULINO, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Sunstone Circuits®, the leading printed circuit board (PCB) solutions provider, has been named one of The Oregonian Top Work Places for 2016. This is the fifth year The Oregonian/OregonLive has recognized the Top Workplaces in Oregon and southwest Washington. Starting with employee recommendations and self-nominations, WorkplaceDynamics - an employee research and consulting firm - invited more than 1,000 companies to participate in confidential employee surveys this spring. Of those, more than 150 agreed to make their almost 55,000 combined employees available for surveys. Almost half of the employees responded. The winners list includes a wide range of industry type and size. Employees gave their opinions on everything from pay and benefits to working conditions to corporate leadership. All responses were anonymous.
“Sunstone Circuits is thrilled to once again be named as one of the Top Places to Work in Oregon,” said Mathew Stevenson, Director of Marketing. “We want Sunstone employees to feel that they contribute something meaningful in their day to day work, and that they are appreciated by management. We are constantly looking at ways to move the company forward, and we want our employees’ input on ways we can do that. Sunstone Circuits is more than a company; we’re a family.”
Key sentiments among workers with winning companies are feelings of alignment and connection. In all, 100 companies were selected as Top Workplaces.
About Sunstone Circuits®
Sunstone Circuits® is the established leader in providing innovative and reliable printed circuit board (PCB) solutions for the electronic design industry. With over 40 years of experience in delivering high-quality, on-time PCBs, Sunstone Circuits is committed to continuously improving the overall process for the design engineer from quote to delivery. With solutions ranging from prototypes to medium volume and production quantities, Sunstone has your entire product lifecycle covered. With live on-site customer support every day of the year (24/7/365), Sunstone Circuits provides unparalleled customer service and leads the industry with a real On-Time Guarantee that is the first of its kind. For more information about Sunstone’s innovative PCB solutions, or to learn more about our custom quote or online quote and ordering process, please visit www.Sunstone.com.
Trademarks: Sunstone Circuits®, PCBExpress®, ValueProto®, PCB123®, & PCBpro®, are trademarked by Sunstone Circuits.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005499/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}