LAVAL, Quebec--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Altasciences Clinical Research, a leading early phase drug development contract research organization, is delighted to have been named “Best Contract Research Organization – Niche” at the 12th Annual Scrip Awards held November 30th in London.
Altasciences was selected from among many leading CROs by an expert Judging Panel, comprised of independent, senior industry experts from around the world, each chosen for their knowledge, objectivity and credibility. The “Best CRO” award was specifically judged on the full range of services provided by CROs, and the quality of relationships they have built with their clients, with particular attention paid to the innovative patient recruitment strategies the CROs brought to the partnership.
“As a CRO focused on early phase drug development, we are honored to be recognized as a leader in the industry. Altasciences offers all of the services of a large CRO, but with a flexible and customized approach at this critical stage of clinical development. Our incredible team of experts work as an extension of our clients, sharing information to ensure the best solution is provided, and proactively identifying obstacles to avoid delays and extra costs, including determining the ideal strategies to recruit healthy normal volunteers and patient populations. We continuously innovate to meet the evolving and increasingly complex needs of our clients, while maintaining a high-level of participant engagement and safety.” said Chris Perkin, CEO.
About Altasciences
Altasciences Clinical Research encompasses Algorithme Pharma in Montreal, QC, Vince & Associates Clinical Research in Overland Park, KS, as well as Algorithme Pharma USA in Fargo, ND, thereby making it one of the largest early phase clinical CROs in North America. With over 25 years of industry experience, Altasciences provides early phase clinical development services to an international customer base of biopharmaceutical and generic companies. Altasciences’ full-service solutions offering in this critical stage of drug development includes medical writing, biostatistics, data management and bioanalysis.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006161/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}