MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Code42, the leader in endpoint data protection and recovery, today announced additional cloud deployment options that harness the power of Amazon Web Services (AWS) as part of its continued security strategy for new and existing customers. With this change, companies can deploy and manage their Code42 authority on the AWS Cloud along with an added layer of security that keeps encrypted data separate from the encryption keys. Combined with AWS’s data center and network architecture built to meet the requirements of the most security-sensitive organizations, this helps maintain the high level of data privacy and security that Code42 customers have always depended on.
“By 2020, 90 percent of all software will be developed for and delivered via the cloud,” said Joe Payne, president and CEO of Code42. “Security has always been our highest priority and the managed authority on AWS gives our customers even greater flexibility and choice in meeting their specific security requirements without deploying any software or hardware on premises.”
The Code42 authority functions as a central server in all Code42 environments. It provides many services including authentication, licensing management, and the storage of encryption keys. This design, which keeps the encrypted archives physically separate from the encryption keys, has always been a major differentiator in the Code42 secure architecture.
“Keeping our customers secure while giving them the ability to choose deployment and configuration models that suit them is top of mind for us,” said John Durant, SVP of product development. “While those who are not ready for the full-cloud solution, for whatever reason, can deploy their Code42 authority in their own data center, we expect and hope that most will adopt this AWS-enabled model. I believe they’ll be pleased with that choice.”
Code42 has seen increased interest in deployment models that combine the highly regarded scalability, performance and security of Code42 with the strengths of the AWS Cloud. In addition to Code42 deploying and maintaining the Code42 authority on AWS, customers have the option to deploy the authority in their own existing AWS environment. With the strict separation of encryption keys and encrypted backup data, the managed authority on AWS allows Code42 customers a very attractive way to deploy a full-cloud option, while meeting their strict security and control needs.
To learn more about Code42 and its secure cloud-first model, visit http://www.code42.com/deployment-options/.
About Code42Code42, the endpoint data protection and recovery company, continuously backs up end-user data for more than 39,000 organizations worldwide, including the most recognized brands in business and education. Our cloud solutions enable IT and security teams to centrally view, protect and manage end-user data as a critical corporate asset. Code42 limits risk by enabling IT to monitor data movement and use, meet data privacy regulations and recover rapidly from data loss—no matter the cause. Code42 is headquartered in Minneapolis and backed by Accel Partners, JMI Equity, NEA and Split Rock Partners. For more information on the company and its solutions, visit www.code42.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005259/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}