MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Christopher & Banks Corporation (CBK), a specialty women’s apparel retailer, today reported results for the third quarter ended October 29, 2016.
Results for the Third Quarter Ended October 29, 2016
LuAnn Via, President and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "We are very pleased with our third quarter performance, as we exceeded our original guidance as well as our preliminary results reported on November 4, 2016. Our comparable sales increase reflects a favorable response to our merchandise assortment as well as our effective marketing campaigns and events that drew her into our stores and to our website. We saw growth in average spend among our existing customers and reactivated more lapsed and also acquired additional new customers. We were able to drive an increase in gross margin rate, despite a highly promotional environment and unseasonably warm weather. As we look ahead, we expect continued momentum as we further execute across our strategic initiatives in merchandising, marketing and technology to drive long term profitable growth.”
LuAnn Via also stated, “In addition to the initiatives we are undertaking to increase sales, we continue to focus on improving our cash flow. After significant investments in technology and stores the past several years, we are focusing on optimizing these investments in Fiscal 2017 and reducing capital outlays. We are also taking a close look at our costs and identifying opportunities for additional savings in a number of areas, including occupancy, and increased efficiencies in processes and contract negotiations. Our preliminary assessment suggests there is an opportunity for net savings in fiscal 2017 of approximately $5.0 million to $7.0 million, before giving effect to the costs the Company would incur in connection with potential growth in overall sales.”
Balance Sheet Highlights and Capital Expenditures
Cash, cash-equivalents and investments totaled $25.8 million as of October 29, 2016. Capital expenditures for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 were $2.0 million compared to $5.1 million in last year’s third quarter. Capital expenditures in the third quarter this year primarily reflected investments in new stores and technology associated with the Company’s Customer First initiative. For the third quarter ended October 29, 2016, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility.
Outlook for the 2016 Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal Year
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company currently expects:
For the 2016 fiscal year, the Company currently expects:
Conference Call Information
The Company will discuss its third quarter results in a conference call scheduled for today, December 1, 2016, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call will be simultaneously broadcast live over the Internet at http://www.christopherandbanks.com. An online archive of the broadcast will be available within approximately one hour of the completion of the call and will be accessible at http://www.christopherandbanks.com until January 1, 2016. In addition, an audio replay of the call will be available shortly after its conclusion and will be archived until December 8, 2016. This call may be accessed by dialing 1-877-870-5176 and using the passcode 13650264.
Non-GAAP Measures
In addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), this press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including Adjusted EBITDA. The presentation of this non-GAAP measure is not in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered superior to or as a substitute for net income or net loss, or any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. The Company believes the inclusion of this non-GAAP measure provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding the underlying performance of the Company’s business operations, especially when comparing such results to previous periods. This non-GAAP measure is not an alternative for measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from similarly titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure as provided in the tables below.
* Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. Please see “Non-GAAP Measures” below and reconciliations of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure that follows in the tables below.
** Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. Please see “Non-GAAP Measures” below and reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure that follows in the tables below.
About Christopher & Banks
Christopher & Banks Corporation is a Minneapolis-based national specialty retailer featuring exclusively designed privately branded women’s apparel and accessories. As of December 1, 2016, the Company operates 503 stores in 45 states consisting of 315 MPW stores, 82 Outlet stores, 54 Christopher & Banks stores, and 52 stores in its women’s plus size clothing division CJ Banks. The Company also operates the www.ChristopherandBanks.com eCommerce website.
Keywords: Christopher & Banks, CJ Banks, Women’s Clothing, Plus Size Clothing, Petites, Extended Sizes, Outfits.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements, made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements may use the words “expect”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “intend”, “project”, “believe”, “drive” “in order to” and similar expressions and include the statements (i) that as the Company looks ahead, it expects continued momentum as it further executes across its strategic initiatives in merchandising, marketing and technology to drive long term profitable growth; (ii) that our preliminary assessment suggests there is an opportunity for net savings in fiscal 2017 of approximately $5.0 million to $7.0 million, before giving effect to the costs the Company would incur in connection with potential growth in overall sales; and (iii) made in the “Outlook for the 2016 Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal Year” section.
These statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, as well as assumptions that, if they do not fully materialize or prove incorrect, could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) the inherent difficulty in forecasting consumer buying and retail traffic patterns which may be affected by factors beyond the Company’s control, such as a weakness in overall consumer demand; adverse weather, economic or political conditions; and shifts in consumer tastes or spending habits that result in reduced sales or gross margins; (ii) lack of acceptance of the Company’s fashions, including its seasonal fashions; (iii) the ability of the Company’s infrastructure and systems to adequately support its operations; (iv) the effectiveness of the Company’s brand awareness, marketing programs and efforts to enhance the in-store experience; (v) the possibility that, because of poor customer response to the Company’s merchandise, management may determine it is necessary to sell merchandise at lower than expected margins or at a loss; (vi) the failure to successfully implement the Company’s strategic and tactical plans and initiatives; (vii) general economic conditions could lead to a reduction in store traffic and in consumer spending on women’s apparel; (viii) fluctuations in the levels of the Company’s sales, expenses or earnings; and (ix) risks associated with the performance and operations of the Company’s Internet operations.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. The Company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement at any time for any reason.
Certain other factors that may cause actual results to differ from such forward-looking statements are included in the Company’s periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the Company’s website under “For Investors” and you are urged to carefully consider all such factors.
The following table reconciles from Net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for the thirteen week and thirty-nine week periods ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015:
The following table reconciles from Net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for the projected thirteen week periods ended January 28, 2017 and January 30, 2016:

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005324/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwalignr {text-align: right !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwdoublebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: double !important; border-bottom-width: 2.25pt !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadb1 {padding-bottom: 2.0px !important;} .bwpadb3 {padding-bottom: 4.0px !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadl2 {padding-left: 10.0px !important;} .bwpadl4 {padding-left: 20.0px !important;} .bwpadl6 {padding-left: 30.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} .bwblockalignc{margin-left: auto !important; margin-right: auto !important;} ;}