PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Leading ethics and compliance software and services company NAVEX Global® today announced a partnership with CREATe Compliance whereby the two organizations will jointly promote leading practices to prevent corruption and to protect intellectual property and trade secrets from cyber and other risks, locally and worldwide.
Together, the two will offer guidance, tools and resources that help companies put controls in place to address rising risks from cyber threats and corruption. These controls are of particular concern for organizations operating globally, and those making compliance a newly enhanced priority for their business. CREATe takes a management systems approach to helping companies implement internal business processes necessary to combat corruption and for effective protection of intellectual property and trade secrets.
The offering complements NAVEX Global’s enterprise policy management, incident management, training software solutions and the overall automated compliance infrastructure their clients’ require.
“Our partnership with NAVEX Global aligns us with an innovative SaaS solutions provider,” said Pamela Passman, President and CEO of CREATe. “Both NAVEX Global and CREATe know that effective compliance processes are a go-forward requirement for all organizations, especially those seeking to lay the right foundation for a global business.”
“NAVEX Global is strengthening its ecosystem of solutions through partners including CREATe,” said Chris Morton, SVP Marketing & Corporate Development, NAVEX Global. “CREATe provides an important service that fits very well with our holistic view of compliance for organizations.”
About CREATe
The Center for Responsible Enterprise and Trade (CREATe.org), and its wholly-owned subsidiary, CREATe Compliance Inc., are two distinct entities with a common mission to promote leading practices to prevent corruption and to protect intellectual property and trade secrets from cyber and other risks. CREATe Compliance provides cost-effective and practical assessments, independent evaluations, training and other resources for safeguarding IP and preventing corruption.
CREATe.org works with leading experts and organizations to develop best practice approaches, resources and tools to effectively address intellectual property and trade secret protection, cybersecurity and corruption.
About NAVEX Global
NAVEX Global's comprehensive suite of ethics and compliance software, content and services helps organizations protect their people, reputation and bottom line. Trusted by 95 of the FORTUNE 100 and more than 12,500 clients, our solutions are informed by the largest ethics and compliance community in the world. For more information, visit www.navexglobal.com.
Learn more about NAVEX Global online (www.navexglobal.com): Ethics & Compliance Matters™ Blog (www.navexglobal.com/blog), @NAVEXGlobal (twitter.com/navexglobal), LinkedIn (www.linkedin.com/company/navex-global), Facebook (www.facebook.com/NAVEXGlobal) and SlideShare (www.slideshare.net/NAVEXGlobal).
About NAVEX Global's Benchmark Reports
NAVEX Global's trusted hotline, training, policy management and third party risk management and EMEA/APAC benchmark reports help ethics and compliance professionals measure their programs against peers and industry standards to make better decisions and increase ethics and compliance program effectiveness.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005199/en/