SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
OptraSCAN, Inc. today announced the availability of CLOUDPath™, a part of the On-Demand Digital Pathology Solutions Suite, to be launched on the Salesforce AppExchange, providing a highly affordable, secure, cloud-enabled LIMS app for customers using the Salesforce Health Cloud.
Built on the Salesforce App Cloud, CLOUDPath™ is currently available on the App Exchange.
As part of the OptraSCAN On-Demand Digital Pathology solutions portfolio, CLOUDPath is a highly secure, HIPAA compliant, fully scalable cloud-enabled LIMS (laboratory information management system) offered through the OptraSCAN pay-per-usage subscription model—intended to make laboratory management more affordable. OptraSCAN’s complete On-Demand Solutions Suite includes a small-footprint, high and low throughput, frozen sections enabled WSI scanner OptraSCAN™, an integrated image viewer and image management system ImagePath™ with telepathology TELEPath™, image analysis OptraASSAYS™ and CARDS™ (computer aided region detection system), as well as 10 TB of complimentary cloud storage and service.
LIMS on Salesforce AppExchange
CLOUDPath is one of the first LIMS applications to be offered on the Salesforce AppExchange for Digital Pathology with simple download installation allowing users to be up-and-running within the same day.
“Companies are looking to transform the way they connect with customers, partners and employees to thrive in the age of the customer,” said Todd Surdey, SVP, ISV Sales, Salesforce. “By leveraging the power of the Salesforce App Cloud, CLOUDPath provides customers with an efficient new way to manage laboratory operations in conjunction with customer data from Salesforce.” “OptraSCAN’s CLOUDPath LIMS is one of our On-Demand Digital Pathology solutions geared towards a pathologist of any use case. Through the On-Demand model, OptraSCAN is able to lower costs of digital transformation for the benefit of pathologists and humankind, helping to enable increased precision through objective pathology analysis,” says founder and CEO Abhi Gholap.
High Quality LIMS—Simple Integration
CLOUDPath brings together the Physician, Technician, Pathologist and Patient view using a HL7 interface that seamlessly integrates to other information systems. Case data including pathology images can be imported into the LIMS, and Report Wizards embed patient pathology images into patient reports. This modification now enables the ability for Salesforce to handle images, including pathological images.
Take a tour of CLOUDPath on the SalesForce AppExchange, try it out for free for 15-days or watch a quick tutorial here.
About Salesforce AppExchange
Salesforce AppExchange is the world’s leading enterprise apps marketplace that empowers companies to sell, service, market and engage in entirely new ways. With 3,000 partner apps and more than 3.8 million customer installs, it is the most comprehensive source of cloud, mobile, social, IoT and data science technologies for businesses.
Salesforce, AppExchange and others are among the trademarks of salesforce.com, Inc.
About OptraSCAN, Inc.
OptraSCAN™ (www.optrascan.com) for research-use-only, is the first On-Demand Digital Pathology system to provide a comprehensive, affordable end-to-end Digital Pathology solution for both low volume, high-throughput and frozen sections users. OptraSCAN™ serves as a perfect tool for the transition from conventional microscopy to Digital Pathology for the effective acquisition of Whole Slide images, viewing, sharing, analysis and management of digital slides and associated metadata. The On-Demand solutions include a small-footprint, high and low throughput WSI scanner OptraSCAN™, an integrated image viewer and image management system ImagePath™ and telepathology TELEPath™, image analysis OptraASSAYS™ and CARDS™ (computer aided region detection system), as well as 10 TB of complimentary cloud storage. Focused on delivering fully integrated Digital Pathology solutions that maximize quality, efficiency and throughput of its customer’s pathology lab (at minimized cost), paired with a complimentary Whole Slide image scanner and viewer—OptraSCAN provides a complete Whole Slide Image solution system via an On-Demand pay-per-use program. Follow OptraSCAN on Linkedin and Twitter.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005327/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}