BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
ML Strategies, the government relations and business advisory affiliate of Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo, P.C., has announced the promotion of Alex Hecht and Julie Cox. Mr. Hecht, who previously served as Vice President of Government Relations, will now serve as Executive Vice President and Director of Operations in ML Strategies’ Washington, DC office. Ms. Cox, the former Vice President of Legislative Affairs, will now serve as Senior Vice President of Government Relations & Manager of Operations.
Mr. Hecht and Ms. Cox will work with Senator William “Mo” Cowan, President and CEO of ML Strategies, to further expand the firm’s client base across a number of key industries and manage the day-to-day operations of ML Strategies’ DC and Boston offices.
“Clients have come to rely on Alex and Julie for their sound and strategic counsel,” said Senator Cowan. “Having worked alongside them on a number of matters over the last few years, it became very apparent to me that ML Strategies could also benefit from their experience and leadership. I’m delighted they’ve agreed to help shape the future of ML Strategies.”
“From their first days at ML Strategies, Alex and Julie have been integral members of the team,” said Stephen P. Tocco, Chairman of ML Strategies. “We are thrilled to see them recognized for their considerable contributions to the success and the growth of our enterprise.”
Mr. Hecht has more than 15 years of senior-level experience in Congress and trade associations. He is regarded as one of the leading congressional staff specialists on the regulatory process and how federal agencies promulgate rules and regulations. Mr. Hecht assists clients with their legislative and regulatory needs on a wide range of issues, including health care, telecommunications, innovation, technology, energy, and federal procurement. He has developed numerous bills and amendments reducing the regulatory compliance burden of business.
Ms. Cox has more than a decade of government affairs and legislative counsel experience. She has successfully advocated for a number of companies before the executive, legislative, and local government branches in the Commonwealth. Her work has also included analysis of the state budget and legislation to determine client impact, developing public relations strategy, and initiating and coordinating the presentation of client initiatives to legislators.
For more information on Mintz Levin, please visit www.mintz.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006163/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}