LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Airfi, a global provider of technologies that simplify cellular connectivity for devices, today announced the availability of its flagship product, Catalyst by Airfi. This turnkey platform is designed to enable original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to quickly and easily integrate connected devices with cellular networks without having to invest significant time, money and effort.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005947/en/ 
Catalyst eases complexity by providing a simple platform from which companies can activate devices and enroll customers to quickly monetize their products. Airfi has partnered with carriers in North America to bring the Company’s unique platform to its customers in a variety of flexible configurations and will roll out globally in 2017.
Catalyst brings a wealth of value adding features and functionality into the forefront of its OEMs’ connected product experience. This includes:
As a network reseller, Airfi eliminates the need for OEMs to spend time, money and effort integrating with cellular networks. OEMs leverage Catalyst by Airfi to bring products to market more quickly by removing the technical barriers of working with multiple carriers and network infrastructures in different markets. Catalyst by Airfi also helps to generate additional revenue for carriers by enabling them to more quickly and efficiently support OEMs interested in using their networks, no matter their size.
“Catalyst eliminates the commercial and technical challenges OEMs face working with carriers to connect their products. It supports the full connectivity lifecycle of their devices by enabling seamless provisioning and enrollment, thereby helping our customers reduce time to market whilst generating new recurring revenue streams from cellular service subscriptions,” said Dariush Zand, CCO and co-founder, Airfi.
Customized Support for Connected DevicesCellular connections can be a challenge for OEMs looking to quickly bring products to market, but it is crucial for devices that require connectivity and security while on the move or where Wi-Fi may not be available. Catalyst by Airfi can be used for a variety of applications from low bandwidth services such as tracking, to high bandwidth services such as video recording for use with security cameras.
About AirfiAirfi simplifies the development of connected devices. Its turnkey platform, Catalyst by Airfi, enables original equipment manufacturers to integrate both high and low bandwidth connected devices with cellular networks. Airfi helps companies to quickly launch and monetize their cellular connected products. Airfi is headquartered in London, U.K. with U.S. offices in Naples, Fla. and San Francisco. For more information, please visit www.airfinetworks.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005947/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005947/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}