DUBLIN & ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Waratek, the virtualization-based application security company, today announced an enhancement to its security solution for Java that directly mitigates Java deserialization vulnerabilities in popular app servers without relying on blacklisting, whitelisting or complex custom code. Deserialization exploits allow denial-of-service, access control, and remote code execution attacks whose severity is rated high by OWASP and CERT.
OWASP defines serialization as the process of disassembling an object into a sequence of bits for easier storage and transportation. Deserialization is the reassembly of bits into an object. Since many apps that accept serialized objects do not validate or check untrusted input before deserializing it, attackers can inject malicious objects into a data stream and execute them on the app server to gain complete remote control over it.
Blacklist and Whitelists Fall ShortDeserialization attacks are commonly blocked by blacklisting vulnerable classes. However, blacklisting has several shortcomings and negative side effects:
Whitelisting, another common defense also has shortcomings. Profiling of the application is required for each new release of the application. The white list tends to be much bigger than the black list, and is difficult to maintain. The list also requires frequent updates that if not maintained results in false positives. Also, whitelisting does not protect against several Denial of Service deserialization attacks.
“Since Waratek uses a virtualization-based approach to runtime application self-protection, our new deserialization security capability creates a smart, restricted compartment that prevents malicious operations from executing,” noted Waratek Founder and CTO John Matthew Holt. “This protection mechanism is activated when deserialization occurs and is automatically disabled when completed. It is also automatically activated when the deserialized objects perform specific actions, such as during their garbage collection. This offers significantly improved security protection compared to any existing security solution without increasing deployment or operational complexity.”
Waratek RASP-Based ApproachWaratek Deserialization Protection provides the following benefits:
AvailabilityThe latest version of the Waratek solution with deserialization protection is available immediately from Waratek and its business partners worldwide. Technical demonstrations and Proof of Concepts are available upon request.
About WaratekWaratek is a pioneer in the next generation of application security solutions known as Runtime Application Self-Protection or RASP. Based on virtualization, Waratek’s solution is highly accurate, easy to install, simple to operate and does not slow application performance – while providing protection against known and unknown vulnerabilities in current and legacy software.
Waratek is based in Atlanta, Georgia and Dublin, Ireland. For more information visit www.waratek.com or follow us @Waratek.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005747/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}