MONTERREY, Mexico--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed Proteccion Agropecuaria Compania de Seguros, S.A.'s (Proagro) International Insurer Financial Strength Rating (IFS) at 'BBB-' and a National Scale IFS rating at 'AA-(mex)'. The Rating Outlook is Stable.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The ratings were assigned based on a stand-alone approach, which means the company is rated strictly based on its individual financial profile. In this case, Proagro's individual assessment becomes the IFS rating. Fitch's decision to use this approach is based on the lack of data to determine the stakeholders' credit profiles and the ability to provide support whenever the insurance company is under pressure. In addition, external barriers may exist that restrict capital/resource transfer among subsidiaries.
The ratings are based on balance sheet, operating performance and other key quantitative strengths relative to specific business sectors, peers, and industry averages, all of which Proagro historically has had a stable performance. Fitch views qualitative factors such as solid statistics inputs for underwriting and sector experience positively. The current rating is constrained by the company's narrow business scope and the challenges of developing in a highly volatile sector dependent on weather conditions and federal catastrophic programs.
Proagro is a specialized company dedicated to agribusiness risk protection mainly in Mexico, but also with a growing share of premiums outside its home country. Proagro's premium portfolio is concentrated in federal programs, which may be unpredictable and depend on political decisions. Catastrophic programs with the Mexican government usually represent 60% of its total portfolio at year-end; however, the company's strategy is open to diversification.
Proagro's average liabilities-to-equity ratio was 2.4x in 2010 - 2014, which is the result of Mexico's stringent insurance regulation, its conservative dividend policy, and internal resource generation. The company's solvency margin exceeds 38% equity.
Proagro has been able to maintain loss ratios below both the market and sector's average, aided by its appropriate underwriting policies and statistical input for decision making. Proagro's earnings depend on the seasonality of its business, low federal catastrophic programs and high retention, which may lead the company to a combined ratio of 92.8% as of September 2016 (December 2015: 81.4). The combined ratio was affected by higher operational costs and an increase of claims ratio.
Proagro has had 96% concentration in federal bonds of since 2013; the five-year average is 86%. Company premiums receivable divided by total assets can change, depending on the season (5% as of September 2016 compared to 7% in December 2015) but liquid assets-to-total technical reserves stood at 1.22x as a five-year average, a ratio at the upper end of its peer's ratios.
Proagro's retention rate of 56.8% falls below the Mexican insurance industry ratio of 82.2% and also below the agricultural sector's 68.3%. However, in Fitch's opinion, the company's retention rate is consistent with its strategy and market positioning. Proagro's reinsurance pool has good credit quality; Munchener is the main participant in Mexican market and participates with 47% of total responsibilities. Regulatory maximum retention limit does not exceed 5% of equity.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Proagro's ratings have limited upside potential in the short term given its narrow profile and its relevant catastrophic exposures. An increase above 95% of seasonally adjusted combined ratio and recurrent high operating catastrophic and financial losses that undermine Proagro's profitability and equity base may trigger a negative rating action for the company.
FULL LIST OF RATING ACTIONS
Fitch has affirmed the following ratings:
Proteccion Agropecuaria Compania de Seguros, S.A
--International IFS Rating at 'BBB-';
--National IFS ay 'AA-(mex)'.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com
Applicable Criteria
Insurance Rating Methodology (pub. 15 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/887191
Metodología de Calificación de Seguros (pub. 19 Oct 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/889422
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016053
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016053
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006267/en/