SHANGHAI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Ford and its joint ventures in China have sold more than 1 million vehicles in 2016, reaching the milestone one month faster than in 2015. Monthly sales hit an all-time November high of 124,113 vehicles, up 17 percent compared to November 2015.
“Ford is gaining more momentum in China each month and we are on pace for a record year in China,” said Peter Fleet, vice president of Marketing, Sales and Service, Asia Pacific. “We are seeing increasing demand across our lineup, particularly our full family of SUVs.”
Monthly sales for Changan Ford Automobile, Ford’s passenger car joint venture in China, totaled more than 96,000 vehicles, up 14 percent compared to November 2015. So far in 2016 CAF has sold nearly 842,000 vehicles, up 14 percent compared to last year.
November’s strong performance was led by SUVs, including the Ford Explorer, with an increase of 73 percent. Sales of the Ford Edge increased 21 percent in November and year-to-date sales more than doubled compared to last year. In Ford’s small sedan line-up, sales of the new Ford Focus increased 28 percent in November and Ford Escort sales rose nearly 50 percent. The Mustang continues to be popular among sports car enthusiasts, with sales up 48 percent for the month and 40 percent for the year.
Jiangling Motor Corporation, Ford's commercial vehicle investment in China also saw a strong November, selling more than 26,000 vehicles, a 29 percent increase compared to November 2015. Year-to-date sales reached more than 232,000, up 5 percent compared to the same time last year.
Editor’s note: Ford reports retail figures in China. JMC figures exclude export sales. Lincoln sales in China are reported on a quarterly basis.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company is a global automotive and mobility company based in Dearborn, Michigan. With about 203,000 employees and 62 plants worldwide, the company’s core business includes designing, manufacturing, marketing and servicing a full line of Ford cars, trucks and SUVs, as well as Lincoln luxury vehicles. To expand its business model, Ford is aggressively pursuing emerging opportunities with investments in electrification, autonomy and mobility. Ford provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.
For more information regarding Ford and its products and services, please visit www.corporate.ford.com. Ford's wholly owned subsidiaries, joint ventures and investment in China include Ford Motor (China) Limited, Ford Motor Research & Engineering (Nanjing) Co., Ltd., Ford Automotive Finance (China) Ltd., Changan Ford Automobile Co., Ltd., Changan Ford Mazda Engine Co., Ltd. and Jiangling Motors Co., Ltd.
For more information regarding Ford’s products, please visit http://corporate.ford.com and www.ford.com.cn.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006563/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwvertalignb {vertical-align: bottom !important;} .bwvertalignm {vertical-align: middle !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}