DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Bulletproof Vest Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The report forecasts the global bullet proof vest market to grow at a CAGR of 7.47% during the period 2016-2020.
A bulletproof vest, also known as a bullet-resistant vest or ballistic vest is a type of personal protective equipment. It is used by the military, law enforcement personals, and many times by civilians as a protective cover against bullets and shrapnel from explosions. Soft bulletproof vests weigh less and provide protection against small-caliber handguns. Hard bulletproof vests are used in combat, high-risk tactical missions, and hostage rescue missions.
The report has been prepared based on an in-depth market analysis with inputs from industry experts. The report covers the market landscape and its growth prospects over the coming years. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
One of latest trends in the market is growing demand for Dyneema. The particular purpose of Dyneema used in the bulletproof vest is to reduce the impact of the bullet in a significant manner. The materials currently used is made from Ultra High Molecular Weight Poly Ethylene (UHMWPE) and aramid fibers. The aramid fibers are developed by upgrading the bulletproof nylon fiber whereas UHMWPE is developed from polyesters. Kevlar is the dominating material that is used in the bulletproof vest, which belongs to the aramid fiber. However, Dyneema belongs to UHMWPE, and has the same formula as that of common polyethylene but is different due to its high molecular weight. Dyneema is expected to dominate the market owing to its strengths when compared to the traditional material, Kevlar.
Key vendors:
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by end-user
Part 07: Product segmentation
Part 08: Geographical segmentation
Part 09: Market drivers
Part 10: Impact of drivers
Part 11: Market challenges
Part 12: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 13: Market trends
Part 14: Vendor landscape
Part 15: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/xwvwsl/global

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005998/en/