DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "HR Auditing: Identifying and Managing Key Risks" conference to their offering.
HR audits are designed to help your organization focus its attention on its human resource management practices, policies, procedures, processes, and outcomes by providing you with a structured and systematic series of questions about key compliance, risk management, internal auditing, and human resource management issues. As a process, HR audits are designed to help your organization identify potential and actual problem areas, help assess the effectiveness of current HR management activities, help assess weaknesses in HR internal control processes, and help assess human capital strategic and compliance related risks. HR audits should additionally provide suggestions for corrective action.
Importantly, HR audits should consider human capital related risks and opportunities from an enterprise risk management (ERM) perspective. That is, your HR Audits should take a holistic approach in assessing human capital risks and attempt to indicate the interrelationships and interactions between HR and other management and organizational issues.
Recognizing that no two employers are alike and that the practices, policies, and processes that may be appropriate and effective for multinational corporations may not be appropriate for small and medium size companies or non-profits, your HR audit activities should be designed to help your organization develop and tailor employment practices, policies, procedures, and processes to meet your specific needs. Your HR audit activities should first provide your organization with the "right" questions to ask about various employment practices issues; then helps you determine the optimal answer for your organization.
The HR audit areas in this program provide you with the right questions to ask about your human resource management activities. More importantly, it provides you with a positive method to identify and take corrective measures.
Who Should Attend:
- HR Professionals
- CFOs
- Internal Auditors
- External Auditors
- Risk Managers
- Compliance Officers
- COOs
Agenda:
Day 1
Lecture 1: Introduction to HR Audits
Lecture 2: Assessing Human Capital Risks
Lecture 3: Developing HR Metrics
Lecture 4: HR Audit Model
Day 2
Lecture 1: Assessing Strategic Alignment
Lecture 2: Assessing HR Management Related Documents
Lecture 3: Assessing HR Management Processes and Practices
Lecture 4: Practical Applications of HR Audits
For more information about this conference visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/93gs48/hr_auditing

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006431/en/