CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the 'BBB+' Issuer Default Rating (IDR) of OneBeacon Insurance Group, Ltd.'s (OB) (OneBeacon) holding company and the 'A' Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) rating of its operating subsidiaries. Fitch has also affirmed the 'BBB+' IDR of White Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd. (White Mountains). OneBeacon is 76.1% owned by White Mountains. All Rating Outlooks are Stable. A full list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Fitch's rating action was driven by OneBeacon's solid capital position and strong investment portfolio. Offsetting these positives are modest concerns about the company's ability to produce sustainable calendar year combined ratios in line with specialty peer averages.
OneBeacon transformed itself into a diversified speciality insurance company with a Bermuda platform after shedding its run-off operations, standard commercial and personal lines of business. Fitch believes this transformation provides the company an optimal platform to compete with specialty peers and generate consistently strong operating profits.
For the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2016, the company produced a GAAP calendar year combined ratio of 98.0% compared to a 96.3% for the prior year period. Year-to-date 2016 results were impacted by almost 2 pp of adverse reserve development which was only partially offset by slightly lower catastrophes. Furthermore, the lower premium base has elevated the expense ratio putting additional strain on profitability.
Fitch's current ratings of OneBeacon reflect an expectation that future reserve development will be neutral over the next 12 to 18 months. OneBeacon's reserve composition has shifted over time as the underwriting portfolio migrated towards specialty lines that tend to have short to medium tail loss payment patterns. Greater loss reserve stability was fostered by the company's sale of run-off business segments and higher reinsurance utilization on current business.
OneBeacon's financial leverage was 21% as of Sept. 30, 2016 and Fitch does not anticipate financial leverage to increase materially over the rating horizon. GAAP fixed charge coverage was 4.8 times (x) year-to-date 2016 following 5.6x in 2015 and a five year average of 5.3x. Fitch expects OneBeacon to maintain a fixed charge coverage of at least 5.0x.
In 2016, White Mountains sold several significant assets including Sirius International Group, Ltd. and its holdings in Symetra Financial Corp. leaving the holding company with approximately $1.8 billion in undeployed capital as of Sept. 30, 2016. Fitch expects White Mountains will gradually return capital to shareholders while exploring new investment opportunities.
Fitch's ratings of OneBeacon are standalone and do not factor in any explicit or implicit support from White Mountains. Fitch does recognize though that White Mountains ownership of OneBeacon can be favourable in terms of financial flexibility but notes that OneBeacon does not receive any ratings uplift from this ownership.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Key rating triggers that could lead to a downgrade are:
--Sustained adverse loss reserve development of 5% or greater of prior year equity;
--Sustained GAAP calendar year combined ratios over 100% or sustained fixed charge coverage below 5.0x;
--Financial leverage above 30%.
Key rating triggers that could lead to an upgrade include:
--Improvement in competitive market position while continuing to produce favorable operating results while not sustaining deterioration in other credit factors.
FULL LIST OF RATING ACTIONS
Fitch has affirmed the following ratings with a Stable Outlook:
White Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd.
--IDR at 'BBB+'.
OneBeacon U.S. Holdings, Inc.
--IDR at 'BBB+';
--$275 million 4.6% due Nov. 9, 2022 at 'BBB'.
OneBeacon U.S. insurance subsidiaries:
Atlantic Specialty Insurance Company;
Homeland Insurance Company of New York;
Homeland Insurance Company of Delaware;
OBI America Insurance Company;
OBI National Insurance Company.
--IFS at 'A'.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Insurance Rating Methodology (pub. 15 Sep 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/887191
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Formhttps://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016029
Solicitation Statushttps://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016029
Endorsement Policyhttps://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third-party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005913/en/