The relief rally following Italy’s as-expected vote against constitutional reform is spreading into Asia, with index futures foreshadowing stock rebounds from Tokyo to Hong Kong.
Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced amid a pullback in the yen, after haven assets unwound an initial surge following the Italian vote. Shares in Australia and New Zealand opened higher, after the Dow Jones Industrial Average reaching a new record on Monday. The Australian dollar was near a more than two-week high and the nation’s 10-year debt declined amid expectations interest rates will be held in a review. The euro was close to its strongest level since mid-November after wiping out an initial slump on the Italian premier’s resignation. Oil fell for the first time in five sessions.
Bets on future swings in the euro tumbled and a gauge tracking expected volatility in U.S. equities slid to a more than two-month low after traders -- burned by the shock Brexit vote and Donald Trump’s surprise victory -- correctly anticipated Italy’s rejection of Senate reform. Investors are pivoting back to the U.S., with the Federal Reserve’s policy review just over a week away and data bolstering confidence in the world’s largest economy. American services industries grew at the fastest pace in 13 months in November, a report Monday showed, further embedding bets on the Fed hiking rates.
More from Bloomberg.com: Netanyahu Wants to Discuss Iran With Trump as Tensions Grow
“Investors shrugged off the anti-establishment messages from the Italian referendum to drive share prices higher,” said Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist in Sydney at CMC Markets. “Attention now turns to the Fed’s interest-rate decision next week, the last listed major risk event for the year.”
Economists project the Reserve Bank of Australia will keep the cash rate target at 1.5 percent Tuesday, with an update on the current account also due. Japan reports on earnings and Indonesia issues data on consumer confidence, as both Taiwan and the Philippines update on consumer prices.
More from Bloomberg.com: Stocks, Euro Advance as Italy Vote Absorbed in ‘Three Minutes’
Stocks
Currencies
Commodities
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Asian Stocks to Join Post-Italy Vote Rally as Volatility Abates on bloomberg.com