ROCKVILLE, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Tomorrow, Immunomic Therapeutics, Inc. (ITI), a privately-held, Maryland-based biotechnology company, will join The Washington Post’s Chasing Cancer Summit to discuss modern healthcare cost drivers and solutions. The Chasing Cancer series brings together scientists, healthcare innovators, patients and policymakers to discuss advances in cancer detection and treatment. Dr. Hearl will share his thoughts on value in health care and how companies are balancing the costs of developing and delivering innovative technologies with the need for affordable care in the treatment of cancer.
Who: Dr. William Hearl, CEO, Immunomic Therapeutics
What: Panel discussion, In the margins: The cost of care
When: Tuesday, Dec. 6, 9 am -1 pm
Where: 1301 K St. NW Washington DC 20071
About ITI
Immunomic Therapeutics, Inc. is a privately-held, clinical stage biotech company on a mission to pioneer vaccines that transform lives. The company, based in Rockville, MD, is developing nucleic acid vaccines based on the patented Lysosomal Associated Membrane Protein (LAMP) Technology. Termed LAMP-Vax™, the exclusive immunotherapy technology works with the body’s natural biochemistry system and has the potential to improve a broad range of vaccines. ITI entered into a licensing agreement with Astellas Pharma Inc. in 2015 to explore the use of LAMP-Vax in the prevention and treatment of allergic diseases, and is now focused on cancer immunotherapy. The LAMP platform has been tested in Phase I and II clinical studies. For more information, please visit www.immunomix.com.
This advisory is based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions relating to, among other things, ITI, the LAMP technology that may contain forward looking statements. Forward looking statements include statements about our future plans and may be indicated by words such as, “we expect,” “we plan,” “we believe,” or other similar words. While these forward-looking statements represent our current judgment on what the future holds, they are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation. We are not obligating ourselves to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward looking statements in light of new information or future events.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006352/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}