ANAHEIM, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Zyxel Communications, a leading provider of secure broadband networking, Internet access and connected home products, today announced it is now shipping its Nebula family of cloud-managed network solutions including 11ac access points and Gigabit Ethernet switches.
Ideal for distributed organizations and value-added resellers that deploy and manage networks at multiple locations across the country, the Zyxel Nebula Cloud Management architecture enables IT administrators to securely monitor and manage the networks at all of their locations in real-time from a single dashboard. Utilizing the powerful web-based Nebula management interface to manage Zyxel’s growing family of Cloud-managed access points and Gigabit PoE switches centralizes the IT function and eliminates the requirement for highly-trained IT staff at branch locations.
Nebula Cloud-Managed Access Points
The dual-band Nebula Cloud Managed 11ac Access Points feature zero-touch deployment by auto-configuring themselves after installation and automatically connecting to the Nebula cloud enabling the APs to be deployed at remote locations by non-IT professionals. Features including Dynamic Channel Selection, Load Balancing, and Smart Client Steering, combined with 11ac speeds provide fast, stable, reliable wireless connections for maximum productivity. The Nebula APs also feature enterprise-class security to protect the network and its connected resources.
The new family of Nebula Cloud-Managed Access Points includes:
The Nebula Cloud-Managed Gigabit Ethernet PoE Switches
The new Layer 2 Nebula Cloud-Managed PoE Switches are feature-rich Layer 2 switches that can be completely managed from the Nebula cloud. The cloud-based management interface provides site-wide configuration and monitoring on all ports, which allows multiple switches to be configured at the same time with a single click over the web. The new switches offer zero-touch deployment by automatically downloading network configurations and enabling auto-provisioning to eliminate the need for on-site network professionals.
Featuring a high power budget of 375 watts, the Nebula switches make it easy and convenient to deploy PoE-enabled devices such as access points, IP cameras, and VoIP phones. The switches leverage advanced capabilities to maximize network stability and incorporate Quality-of-Service functionality to ensure optimal performance for critical applications.
The new family of Nebula Cloud-Managed Gigabit Ethernet PoE Switches includes:
The ZYXEL Nebula access points and switches come with a one-year service license and carry a limited lifetime warranty and US-based phone technical support. Three- and five-year service licenses are also available. The Nebula products are available now through all ZYXEL authorized resellers and e-Commerce partners. To introduce its reseller partners to the Nebula product line and Cloud management interface, Zyxel is providing its partners with a free Nebula 802.11ac wireless access point.
For more information on Zyxel, Nebula, and the company’s complete family of connectivity solutions for homes and businesses, visit www.zyxel.com/us and follow us on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.
About Zyxel:
Zyxel, a pioneer in IP technology for over two decades and trusted brand for over 25 years, provides a complete portfolio of multi-service LTE, fiber and DSL broadband gateways, home connectivity solutions, smart home devices and enterprise-class Ethernet switches, security and Wi-Fi equipment for small to mid-size businesses. Zyxel offers integrated, interoperable network solutions based on open standards. Headquartered in Anaheim, California, Zyxel offers its partners service-rich solutions backed by a domestic team of logistic, sales, and technical support professionals.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005689/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}