RAS AL KHAIMAH, United Arab Emirates--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The 5th International Conference on Electronic Devices, Systems and Applications (ICEDSA 2016), sponsored by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), was today launched in Ras Al Khaimah in the United Arab Emirates.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005480/en/ 
Taking place on the AURAK campus, the conference runs until Thursday, December 8, and focuses on the latest theoretical and practical developments in the field of electronic devices, systems and applications.
The conference was organized by the American University of Ras Al Khaimah (AURAK) in conjunction with its strategic partner, the Universiti Teknologi Mara, a Malaysian university based in Shah Alam, Selangor. A branch of the local Ras Al Khaimah government, RAK Municipality, sponsored the three-day event.
The ICEDSA 2016 opening remarks were delivered by Professor Eesa Bastaki, chair of the conference and honorary chairman of the IEEE’s UAE section, and featured a keynote session with prominent speakers such as Prof. Ahmed Kishk, Dr. Ayman Alnashar, Prof. Rabab Ward and Prof. Amine Bermak.
Speaking of the conference’s importance, Professor Mousa Mohsen, Dean of the AURAK School of Engineering, commented, “The fact that we are hosting such a prestigious conference is a demonstration of how quickly this university is developing. IEEE is the most distinguished professional association in our field, so it is a great honor for us to be the hub for this event, where great minds have come to interact and share knowledge.”
Over the next three days a number of parallel sessions will be taking place across the university’s campus, with more than one hundred academic papers being presented.
Prof. Hassan Hamdan Al Alkim, president of AURAK, added, “It gives me immense satisfaction when I see people travelling from around the world to participate in conferences at our university. This is just further evidence that AURAK is quickly becoming one of the UAE’s leading universities.”
The American University of Ras Al Khaimah’s School of Engineering offers a total of eleven programs, including bachelor’s degrees in electronics and communications engineering, computer engineering and computer science, making the conference particularly relevant for the large number of students who attended.
*Source: ME NewsWire

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005480/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005480/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}