DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Attacca International in collaboration with Milestone Business Developments is pleased to have served as financial advisor to Larry Thompson & Associates ("LT&A") in its acquisition by Fund Evaluation Group (“FEG”) which closed on November 30, 2016.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005732/en/ 
The combined firm will have over 130 employees and will provide full-retainer services to over $58 billion in a majority of institutional assets under advisement across all client segments throughout the Americas. Larry Thompson & Associates will operate under the Fund Evaluation Group name, and its Dallas office will remain open to serve clients and support FEG’s growth in the region.
“The experience and guidance that Mark and Jim provided was invaluable in helping LT&A navigate the transaction process and enabling us to achieve our objectives – both economic and non-economic,” said Larry Thompson. “Central to that was ensuring we had an operating structure post-transaction that would enable my team and me to continue to deliver advisory services to our clients and augment those with the additional resources and expertise that FEG provides.”
“It was a privilege for us to work with Larry and his team on this transaction,” said Mark Yancey, Managing Partner of Attacca International. “Jim and I have great respect for Larry’s deep understanding of the investment landscape around all asset classes for a range of clients including corporate defined benefit plans, endowments, foundations and family offices as well as private investment funds. An important ingredient to this partnership coming to fruition was that FEG shared the longstanding business vision of Larry and his team to deliver results through sound investment advisory services."
“Larry built an incredibly successful business based on objectivity and integrity,” said Jim Cahill, Managing Partner of Milestone Business Developments. “Larry’s disciplined business approach and his focus on providing client-specific solutions was a great fit with FEG’s client-centric approach and reputation for delivering outstanding investment advisory services.”
About Attacca International
Attacca International is an independent intermediary that specializes in the investment/wealth management sector. The firm advises financial institutions undergoing transformational events, including M&A, capital raises, recapitalizations, re-equitizations and joint ventures. Clients include investment and wealth management firms, insurance companies, commercial and private banks, multi-family offices and securities firms, among others. Attacca provides guidance to firms that wish to either enter new markets or add or upgrade capabilities in specific product areas. Please visit www.attaccaintl.com for more information.
About Milestone Business Developments
Milestone Business Developments is an independent financial advisory and investment organization focused on the investment management and financial services sectors. Milestone provides transaction advisory and capital raising services to emerging through middle market stage firms, leveraging its principal’s 20 years of buyside experience in the asset management industry. Milestone’s M&A expertise is augmented by its extensive network of institutional investors, allocators and other intermediaries. Please contact JCahill@mbdglobal.com for additional information or inquiries.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005732/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005732/en/