DEDHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
iMDsoft®, a global leader in clinical information systems, today announced that it has been acquired by Harris Computer Corporation, an arm of the Constellation Software group. iMDsoft will be run as an independent business unit within Harris. It will be led by Shahar Sery, a seasoned iMDsoft executive, who has been nominated to the role of Executive Vice President.
iMDsoft's flagship product, the MetaVision® Suite, generates complete electronic patient records and provide hospitals with advanced tools for clinical workflow management and documentation, clinical assessment, care planning and decision support. Designed for high acuity environments, it delivers results in areas of the hospital with the highest cost, revenue, mortality and morbidity. It provides a single integrated record which can be accessed across departments and hospitals, giving clinicians the platform to coordinate care for their sickest patients and the data they need to make informed decisions about the best course of treatment.
Over 350 hospitals worldwide have chosen iMDsoft’s innovative technology to promote patient safety, improve financial performance, support research and compliance, and achieve sustainable market leadership. Harris will leverage iMDsoft's market-leading product and significant international presence to expand its healthcare IT product portfolio and global footprint. Harris' organizational assets and operational expertise will enable iMDsoft to enhance and strengthen their client relationships long-term.
"This investment is a tremendous vote of confidence in our team and technology,” commented Shahar Sery. “We are excited about joining Harris and benefitting from the enhanced set of tools now at our disposal to serve, support and grow our customer community.”
Jeff Bender, Chief Executive Officer of Harris, said: “We continue to be impressed with the product and market vision of the iMDsoft employees and believe they are a great addition to the Harris healthcare family. This is a great opportunity to add a number of marquee international customers as well as an established and proven sales distribution network. Harris and iMDsoft share the same goals – enhancing quality of care for patients and improving the financial performance of the hospital.”
About Harris
Harris delivers its software solutions to over 18,000 customers across North America, and has over fifty offices from coast to coast. Since 1976, Harris has focused on providing feature-rich and robust turnkey solutions to Public Sector, Schools, Utility, and Health Care agencies. Harris’ focus is on creating long-term relationships with its customers and ensuring that it meets the changing needs of its customers over time. Harris has been part of the Constellation Software Incorporated group of companies since 1996.
About iMDsoft
iMDsoft is a leading provider of Clinical Information Systems for critical, perioperative, and acute care environments. The company's flagship family of solutions, the MetaVision Suite, was first implemented in 1999. Hospitals and health networks worldwide use MetaVision to improve care quality and enhance financial results. The system promotes compliance with protocols and best practices, streamlines reporting and supports clinical research. iMDsoft is a wholly owned subsidiary of N. Harris Computer Corporation, headquartered in Wakefield, MA. To learn more, visit www.imd-soft.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006455/en/