ROSEMEAD, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Edison International (EIX) today announced that it has endorsed two national initiatives focused on gender parity in compensation practices and corporate leadership. The company has committed to the White House Equal Pay Pledge and joined the Paradigm for Parity Coalition.
In signing the White House Equal Pay Pledge, Edison International joins more than 100 U.S. companies that have vowed to work toward reducing the national gender wage gap. By signing the pledge, companies commit to conducting an annual company-wide gender pay analysis across all positions, reviewing hiring and promotion processes and procedures to reduce unconscious bias and structural barriers, and embedding equal pay efforts into broader equity initiatives.
The company also joined the Paradigm for Parity Coalition, an initiative by CEOs, board members, founders and senior executives representing major industries in the U.S. who are committed to accelerating the pace of gender equity in senior executive roles and on corporate boards. The Coalition has created an action plan for gender parity in corporate leadership, laying out proactive steps for companies to take in order to curb workplace inequality. The Paradigm for Parity Coalition includes CEOs of 27 U.S. companies.
“We are proud to be one of the first two electric utility companies to sign the White House Equal Pay Pledge, and we are delighted to join the Paradigm for Parity Coalition,” said Pedro Pizarro, president and chief executive officer of Edison International. “At Edison International, we understand that diversity of thought is fueled by diversity of people engaged in an inclusive work environment. We encourage other companies to join in these efforts.”
Edison International has a long standing commitment to equal opportunity. The ability of Edison International to attract, retain and develop a diverse workforce allows it to better reflect the diversity of the communities it serves, and ensures that equity and inclusion benefits both the company and its customers.
About Edison International
Edison International (EIX), through its subsidiaries, is a generator and distributor of electric power, as well as a provider of energy services and technologies, including renewable energy. Headquartered in Rosemead, Calif., Edison International is the parent company of Southern California Edison, one of the nation’s largest electric utilities. Edison International is also the parent company of Edison Energy Group, a portfolio of competitive businesses that provide commercial and industrial customers with energy management and procurement services and distributed solar generation. Edison Energy Group companies are independent from Southern California Edison.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006071/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}