SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
MegaChips Corporation, a global semiconductor company specializing in ASICs and Application Specific Standard products (ASSPs), and Omni Design Technologies, a provider of high-performance, ultra-low power semiconductor IP cores, today announced a strategic partnership for the development of high-performance, low-power analog front end (AFE) chips. This partnership brings together two industry leaders with the joint purpose of offering differentiated solutions and products to enable next-generation home and access networks and industrial automation.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006363/en/ 
"Both MegaChips and Omni Design offer unique technology for the communications market," said Masahiro Konishi, general manager at MegaChips Corporation. "By partnering with Omni Design Technologies, an industry leader in semiconductor IP cores, we can continue to develop timely, original AFE chips designed to give our customers a competitive edge."
Dr. Kush Gulati, president and CEO of Omni Design Technologies, said: "MegaChips has an outstanding reputation for providing cutting-edge system solutions for its customers. We are delighted to partner with them to develop high-performance, ultra-low power AFEs incorporating high-resolution and high-speed Analog-to-Digital Converters (ADCs) based on our revolutionary SWIFT™ technology."
About Omni Design Technologies
Omni Design Technologies (http://www.omnidesigntech.com) is a developer of high-performance, ultra-low power semiconductor embedded IP cores that enable highly differentiated systems-on-chip (SoCs) in applications ranging from wired and wireless communications, connected sensors, and the internet-of-things (IoT). Omni’s mission is to provide a wide range of disruptive ultra-low power, high-performance embedded circuits that enable highly differentiated semiconductor systems and plug-and-play SoC development. Omni is staffed by semiconductor industry veterans, world-class technologists from MIT, and experienced entrepreneurs.
About MegaChips Technology America Corporation (“MegaChips America”)
MegaChips America is a wholly owned subsidiary of MegaChips Corporation headquartered in Osaka, Japan. As one of the premier semiconductor companies, MegaChips provides Integrated Circuits (ICs) and Systems on Chip (SoCs) that are essential for the advancement of Application Specific Standard Products (ASSPs). Leveraging decades of technology excellence, partnerships and acquisitions, MegaChips is exploring and shaping the next wave of the digital revolution, adding significant value for businesses and consumers in the global market with innovations in the areas of Internet of Things, Displays, Mobility, and Wearable devices. The company uses its advanced technological capabilities and know-how to help people achieve healthier, safer and more fulfilling lives. For more information, contact the company at 408-570-0555, or visit http://www.megachips.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006363/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006363/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}