NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Reebok Hockey and retail partner Lids today unveiled a contest that will send two lucky fans to the 2017 Bridgestone NHL Winter Classic® outdoor game between the Chicago Blackhawks® and the St. Louis Blues® at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, on January 2nd.
Fans will be encouraged to show how proud they are to be “Born in the Cold” by illustrating ways they play and celebrate hockey amid freezing and sub-freezing temperatures. Between Friday, December 9th and Sunday, December 18th, those interested in participating must tag @Lids or @Lids4Hats and use the hashtag #BorninTheColdContest and upload a photo or video to Twitter or Instagram. Fans also may manually upload photos and videos to www.borninthecold.com to enter. Winners will be selected and announced on Monday, December 19th.
One grand-prize winner will receive two tickets to the 2017 Bridgestone NHL Winter Classic®. A second grand-prize winner will receive two tickets to the 2017 NHL Winter Classic® Alumni Game. One runner-up will win an NHL Winter Classic® prize pack stuffed with Reebok gear and a $100 Lids gift card.
“We know that hockey fans are passionate and love to be a part of iconic NHL events,” said Keith Leach, Director, NHL Licensed Apparel at adidas Group. “The NHL Winter Classic® is an extraordinary experience and Lids and Reebok would love to treat lucky fans to enjoy it.”
No purchase necessary. For Official Rules and contest details, please go to Lids.com. Neither grand-prize winner nor the first runner-up will receive compensation for travel or accommodation.
Reebok Hockey provides fans and athletes with a full suite of apparel products. These include officially-licensed NHL team jerseys, warm up suits, T-shirts, sweatshirts, and the premium quality Center Ice Collection, which all NHL players, coaches and trainers wear for maximum performance and durability on and off-the-ice. The Reebok NHL Winter Classic® collection will be available for purchase at select retail locations in Chicago and St. Louis, on Lids.com, and throughout Busch Stadium.
The 2017 Bridgestone NHL Winter Classic® will be televised live on NBC in the U.S. and on Sportsnet and TVA Sports in Canada at 1 p.m. ET/12 noon CT. For NHL Winter Classic® news and exclusive content, fans should follow the official hashtag NHL#WinterClassic.
About Reebok Hockey
As the Authentic Outfitter for NHL products worn by all teams and players on the ice and in the locker room, Reebok Hockey is the overwhelming choice for the world’s best. Reebok Hockey works closely with athletes and listens to consumers to ensure feedback is incorporated into each and every product. This process has allowed Reebok Hockey to remain at the forefront of apparel performance innovation.
NHL, the NHL Shield and the word mark NHL Winter Classic are registered trademarks and the NHL Winter Classic logo is a trademark of the National Hockey League. NHL and NHL team marks are the property of the NHL and its teams. © NHL 2016. All Rights Reserved.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005786/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}