PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Theranos today announced that veteran technology executive Daniel J. Warmenhoven has been appointed to the Theranos Board of Directors, effective immediately.
“Mr. Warmenhoven has deep experience in building great companies,” Theranos CEO Elizabeth Holmes said. “His insights will be extremely useful as we now work to commercialize our miniLab and proprietary software systems.”
Warmenhoven brings decades of leadership experience in Silicon Valley and the technology industry. He served as chief executive officer of NetApp from 1994 through 2009 and was executive chairman of the NetApp board of directors from 2009 through 2014. During that time, NetApp grew to become a multibillion-dollar company and a recognized market leader in networked storage. Warmenhoven also led the company’s initial public offering.
Previously, Warmenhoven served as chairman, president, and CEO of Network Equipment Technologies, a telecommunications manufacturer. He has also held senior management positions at Hewlett-Packard Co., and prior to that, worked for over 10 years at IBM Corporation. He is currently a director on the board of Bechtel Group, Inc. and Palo Alto Networks.
“Theranos’ inventions position it to meaningfully contribute to accessible, affordable health care across a broad range of settings,” Warmenhoven said. “I have confidence in the company’s return to its technology roots, and I look forward to helping guide it to success.”
Warmenhoven replaces retiring director Riley P. Bechtel, who has health issues, effective immediately. “It has been a privilege to have Riley as a mentor and director of our company,” said Holmes. “He is an amazing leader. We are proud to call him a shareholder and will miss him on our board.”
Theranos also announced that, effective Jan. 1, 2017, it will retire its Board of Counselors structure as part of an ongoing evolution and consolidation of the Company’s corporate advisory framework. “We are deeply appreciative of the distinguished individuals who have served on our Board of Counselors.” said Holmes. “We have been so fortunate to have the counsel of this group, and I am grateful for their ongoing support of our company.”
About Theranos
Founded in 2003 by Elizabeth Holmes, Theranos, Inc. is a health technology company headquartered in Palo Alto, Calif. Its proprietary miniLab platform is designed to facilitate small-sample collection, testing and rapid communication of diagnostic information in distributed settings, enabling earlier detection and intervention. To learn more about Theranos, visit www.theranos.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006562/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}