SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Tech21, the leader in impact protection for mobile devices, announces the launch of the Evo Go case for Apple iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, exclusively at T-Mobile. Available online and at participating T-Mobile stores nationwide, Evo Go cases start at $69.99 (standard retail price). Designed for those who want to travel light but still stay protected, Evo Go features genuine leather and offers the same advanced impact protection, ingenious design and unbeatable user-friendliness.
Tech21 continues to push the boundaries of impact protection through its all-new 3-layer drop protection technology featuring the scientifically proven material, FlexShock™, an ultra-efficient impact absorbing material designed to dissipate impact force, preventing it from passing directly through the device.
The Evo Go line sits securely in the hand, providing comfortable, precise access to function buttons and the Lightning connector. With a secure magnetic closure, Evo Go offers concealed storage for two cards, keeping them easily accessible, but hidden from prying eyes.
In the creation of Evo Go, tech21 worked to design the product to ensure it continues to offer market-leading impact protection that does not compromise phone performance. The case has been rigorously tested to ensure perfect compatibility with Apple iPhone 7 and 7 Plus. Core functionality such as the camera, acoustics and sensors (such as Touch ID) will work the same with the case on or off.
About tech21
Since 2005, tech21 has been developing the most advanced, scientifically proven cases and screen shields for mobile, tablet and laptop devices worldwide. Tech21 combines science, engineering and British design to create products that address three core consumer benefits: style, protection and performance. As the brand evolves to continue meeting the needs of its consumers, tech21 has developed the most advanced impact protection material on the market – FlexShock™. The ultra-thin and lightweight material absorbs and dissipates force and can withstand drops up to 13 feet. In addition tech21 puts all its products through a rigorous testing program, and in an industry first has partnered with the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) to develop its testing methodology. This ensures that the tests tech21 products have to pass are overseen by independent experts. Tech21 is the number one case brand in the UK. For more information, visit tech21.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130005193/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}