AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the 'A+' rating on the Municipal Energy Acquisition Corp.'s (MEAC) series 2006 A&B bonds.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The bonds are special obligations of the issuer, payable solely from revenues and other funds pledged under each indenture. Revenues are derived from the fulfillment of obligations from each of the transaction's varied counterparties. Bondholders also rely on funds pledged under the indenture, which are typically invested by a third party.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
COUNTERPARTY PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS: The rating on the MEAC revenue bonds reflects the structured nature of the prepaid energy transaction and Fitch's analysis of the principal transactional counterparties, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM; Issuer Default Rating (IDR) 'A+'/Stable Outlook) and BNP Paribas (BNP; IDR 'A+'/Stable Outlook).
STRONG GAS SUPPLIER SUPPORT: Gas is supplied to MEAC by J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation (JPMVEC), whose obligations are guaranteed by JPM.
COLLATERALIZED COMMODITY SWAP OBLIGATIONS: BNP is the commodity swap provider. BNP's obligations under the commodity swap agreement have been partially cash collateralized.
BROAD SUPPORT FROM JPM: JPM provides further enhancement through a mandatory receivables purchase agreement. This mitigates the credit risk associated with various other counterparties in the transaction, including the gas purchasers and the guaranteed investment contract providers.
WEAK LINK COUNTERPARTY: The rating on the bonds is driven by the credit quality of the weakest counterparty whose default risk is not otherwise mitigated. The rating of the MEAC revenue bonds reflects the credit quality of the JPM and BNP, which are also the current constraint on the transaction's rating.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The long-term rating on Municipal Energy Acquisition Corp.'s bonds will continue to be determined by Fitch's assessment of the transaction structure, the role of each counterparty in the structure, and their credit quality. Therefore, unless otherwise mitigated, shifts in the rating or credit quality of JP Morgan Chase & Co. or BNP Paribas below the current rating on the bonds would result in a downgrade. Conversely, shifts in the rating or credit quality of both relevant counterparties above the current rating on the bonds would result in an upgrade.
CREDIT PROFILE
The proceeds of the MEAC bonds were used to prepay the gas supplier (JPMVEC) for a specified quantity of natural gas, deliverable to the issuer over the 12-year life of the bonds. Bondholders rely on the supplier to deliver the gas or make a cash payment to the issuer over the life of the bonds. The issuer, in turn, delivers the gas to the purchasing utilities consisting of 19 municipal gas utilities located throughout Alabama, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee. The purchasing utilities are required to make a payment to the issuer for the gas delivered which together with other payments, including those required under the commodity swap agreement, should be sufficient to meet debt service requirements.
COMMODITY SWAP AGREEMENT TO HEDGE PRICE RISK
To hedge the risk of changes in the price of natural gas, MEAC entered into a commodity swap agreement with BNP, exchanging an average daily gas index price for a fixed price equal to debt-service requirements. JPMVEC has separately entered into a matching swap agreement with BNP, exchanging a fixed price for an average daily gas index price.
Following BNP's downgrade below 'AA-', BNP was required to either post sufficient collateral or assign all of its rights and obligations to an acceptable party. During September 2012, MEAC executed a collateral agreement with BNP requiring BNP to post collateral covering up to two months of settlement payments. If BNP is downgraded further to below 'A-', it must assign all of its rights and obligations to a party rated 'AA-' or higher within 30 days.
STRUCTURE DESIGNED FOR TIMELY PAYMENT
The bonds are structured with provisions which provide for timely payment of debt service, regardless of changes in natural gas prices or transportation costs, or even the physical delivery of gas by JPMVEC (since financial payments will be due by the supplier, in the event of non-delivery of gas for any reason, including during force majeure events).
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Rating Prepaid Energy Transactions (pub. 08 Jul 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/884518
U.S. Municipal Structured Finance Criteria (pub. 23 Feb 2015)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/862222
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015920
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015920
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006356/en/