BELLEVUE, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
T-Mobile (TMUS) and entrepreneurship guru Marcus Lemonis, host of CNBC’s “The Profit,” today announced a new, multi-year collaboration to share insights that will help businesses succeed. T-Mobile and Lemonis will produce events across the country focused on coaching entrepreneurs to grow their businesses and launch a new video series called “Whiteboard Wednesdays,” featuring Lemonis.
It all kicks off today at T-Mobile’s newest store on Chicago’s Miracle Mile with Lemonis speaking to invited entrepreneurs about how to harness the power of social media. Beginning at 6:00 p.m. Central Time, the event will also be live-streamed on T-Mobile’s @Work Facebook page.
In the new “Whiteboard Wednesdays” series, which debuts Dec. 7th on https://business.t-mobile.com, Lemonis will share advice on a variety of topics of interest to entrepreneurs, including best practices in marketing, social media and managing cash flow.
“As America’s Un-carrier, we know a thing or two about how to compete – and win – against much bigger competitors with deeper pockets, just like most entrepreneurs in America do every day,” said John Legere, president and CEO of T-Mobile. “With Marcus’ expertise and insights, we’ll help our @Work customers punch above their weight even more than they already do.”
“My focus and passion is working with entrepreneurs to give them the tools to succeed,” said Marcus Lemonis. “And when I learned about T-Mobile’s Un-carrier philosophy and their customer-focused, transparent approach to working with businesses, it was so refreshingly different that I knew I wanted to be part of it.”
Since T-Mobile launched Un-carrier for Business in March 2015, the number of business customers choosing T-Mobile @Work has more than doubled. The focus on predictable, flat-rate pricing has been attractive to businesses of all sizes.
For more information on T-Mobile @Work, please visit: https://business.t-mobile.com.
About Marcus Lemonis
Marcus Lemonis is an entrepreneur, investor, television personality, and chairman and CEO. Lemonis is known as the "business turnaround king" and host of CNBC's prime time reality series, The Profit, in which he lends his expertise to struggling small businesses around the country and judges businesses based on a "Three P" principle: People, Process, and Product. More about Marcus Lemonis can be found at http://www.marcuslemonis.com, Facebook https://www.facebook.com/marcus.lemonis and Twitter @MarcusLemonis.
About T-Mobile
As America's Un-carrier, T-Mobile US, Inc. (TMUS) is redefining the way consumers and businesses buy wireless services through leading product and service innovation. The Company's advanced nationwide 4G LTE network delivers outstanding wireless experiences to more than 69.4 million customers who are unwilling to compromise on quality and value. Based in Bellevue, Washington, T-Mobile US provides services through its subsidiaries and operates its flagship brands, T-Mobile and MetroPCS. For more information, please visit http://www.t-mobile.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005608/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}