DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Medical Computer Carts Market (Powered Cart and Non Powered Cart) - Global Industry Perspective, Comprehensive Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Segment, Trends and Forecast, 2015 - 2021" report to their offering.
The report provides forecast and analysis for the medical computer carts market on a global and regional level. The study gives historic data of medical computer carts industry along with an estimate from year 2016 to 2021 based on revenue (USD Billion). This report includes drivers and restraints for the medical computer carts along with the impact they have on the demand over the forecast period. Additionally, the report includes the study of opportunities available in the medical computer carts market on a global level. The report covers an extensive competitive analysis of key players in the medical computer carts market.
North America, Europe & Middle East and Africa and Asia-Pacific are the main regions covered in this report with its further divide into major countries such as United States, UK, Germany, Japan, and China for Medical computer carts market. This segmentation includes demand for medical computer carts based on individual applications in all the regions.
Major companies included in this report are AFC Industries, Ergotron, Rubbermaid Medical Solutions, Altus, Anthro Corporation, Cura Carts, CompuCaddy, Lund Industries, Modern Solid Industrial, GCX Corporation, Enovate (stinger) and Scott-Clark medical.
The report segments the global medical computer carts market as
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1. Preface
Chapter 2. Executive Summary
Chapter 3. Medical Computer Carts - Market Dynamics
Chapter 4. Competitive Landscape
Chapter 5. Medical Computer Cart Market - Type Segment Analysis
Chapter 6. Medical Computer Carts Market - Regional Analysis
Chapter 7. Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/3gp43v/medical_computer

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005665/en/