FISHERS, Ind.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
IKEA, the world’s leading home furnishings retailer, today announced that steel framing has progressed far enough that installation of the iconic blue composite panels has begun on its future Indianapolis-area store. Installing the blue panels is a construction milestone that keeps the store on track to open Fall 2017 and reflects the unique architectural design for which IKEA stores are known worldwide.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006105/en/ 
The 289,000-square-foot future IKEA Fishers and its 1,000 parking spaces will be built on 35 acres along the eastern side of Interstate 69, just south of the E. 116th Street exit, approximately 15 miles northeast of downtown Indianapolis. Until the store opens, customers can shop at the Cincinnati-area store in West Chester, OH; Chicago-area IKEA Bolingbrook and IKEA Schaumburg; or online at IKEA-USA.com.
“With IKEA Fishers taking shape and the blue paneling now going up, we continue to be on track for a grand opening next Fall,” said Lars Petersson, IKEA U.S. president. “We hope to be enclosed in Spring, and cannot wait to begin transforming the building’s interior to look like an IKEA store as well. We know there are many customers in the area who are excited for us to open, including those who are driving great distances to shop at our other stores as well those who have yet to experience the unique IKEA shopping experience.”
IKEA Fishers will feature nearly 10,000 exclusively designed items, 50 inspirational room-settings, three model home interiors, a supervised children’s play area, and a 325-seat restaurant serving Swedish specialties such as meatballs with lingonberries and salmon plates, as well as American dishes. Other family-friendly features include a ‘Children’s IKEA’ area in the Showroom, baby care rooms, play areas throughout the store, and preferred parking. IKEA also will evaluate potential on-site power generation to complement its current U.S. goal of a renewable energy presence at nearly 90% of its U.S. locations.
IKEA Fishers will provide annual sales and property tax revenue for local governments and schools. And – in addition to 500 jobs expected during construction – 250 coworkers will join the IKEA family when the store opens. Opportunities will be available next year for candidates interested in working at this employer of choice in home furnishings sales, interior decoration, customer service, safety and security, cashiers, maintenance, goods flow, receiving, warehouse and stock replenishment. Also, setting itself apart, IKEA Fishers will offer nearly 50 food service opportunities in its Restaurant, Swedish Food Market, Exit Bistro and coworker cafeteria.
Since its 1943 founding in Sweden, IKEA has offered home furnishings of good design and function at low prices so the majority of people can afford them. There are currently more than 390 IKEA stores in 48 countries, including 42 in the U.S. IKEA has been included in rankings of “Best Companies to Work For” and, as further investment in its coworkers, has raised its own minimum wage twice in two years. IKEA incorporates sustainability into day-to-day business and supports initiatives that benefit children and the environment. For more information see IKEA-USA.com, @IKEAUSA, @IKEAUSANews, or IKEAUSA on Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Pinterest.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006105/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006105/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}