DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Data Center Security Market (2016-2022)" report to their offering.
The Data Center Security market is anticipated to grow at a CAGR of 14.7% during 2016-2022, attaining a market size of $14.1 billion, globally. Due to a growing need for network virtualization and cloud computing, the demand for the data center market is growing rapidly, as organizations grow highly efficient with the implementation of the same. Securing networks and big data transfers are achieved seamlessly with the implementation of data center security solutions. The rapid uptake of BYOD has also ignited the need for a superior security level.
The Internet of Things, on the other hand, will be another major contributing factor that would drive the data generation during the forecast period. Applications such as video surveillance, smart meters, digital health monitors and a host of other M2M services would create new network requirements and eventually contribute to incremental traffic. Seamless data connection would bring about unparalleled opportunities for businesses to serve their customers efficiently.
The report highlights the adoption of the Data Center Security market, globally. Based on the solutions, the Data Center Security market is segmented into Logical Security Solutions and the Physical Security Solutions markets. Based on the type, the Logical Security Solutions market is further bifurcated into Threat and Application Security, Compliance Management and Data Protection segments; the Physical Security Solutions market is segmented into Video Surveillance Solution, Monitoring & Management and Access Control segments.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Market Scope & Methodology
2. Market Overview
3. Global Data Center Security Market - By Solution
4. Global Data Center Security Market - By Data Center Type
5. Global Data Center Security Market - By Vertical
6. Global Data Center Security Market - By Geography
7. Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/k9cw8w/global_data.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006303/en/