BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Wayfair (NYSE:W), one of the world’s largest online destinations for home furnishings and décor, today announced an all new collaboration with HGTV® for the 21st annual HGTV Dream Home. For the first time, Wayfair will provide all of the furnishings and décor to perfect the 3,200-square-foot home located on St. Simons Island, Georgia. Originally built in 1984, the property was remodeled by a highly-skilled team including interior design expert Brian Patrick Flynn, who selected 400 pieces from Wayfair’s extensive catalog of more than 7 million products to transform the space. HGTV will reveal the renovation in online photo galleries and virtual tours on December 1, 2016 at HGTV.com/HGTVDreamHome and during the premiere of the network special on January 1, 2017.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005769/en/ 
“As a longtime partner of Scripps Networks, we’re thrilled to collaborate for the first time on an HGTV Dream Home,” said Nancy Go, vice president of brand marketing, Wayfair. “Our comprehensive selection of furniture and décor made us the right partner to not only achieve a beautiful aesthetic, but also showcase many unique styles throughout the home that represent something for everyone.”
Decorated with formal statement pieces, casual textiles and modern art—all available on Wayfair.com— the three-bedroom, four-bathroom open-concept home boasts impeccably decorated spaces that won’t disappoint.
The elegant foyer opens to a traditional living room adorned with soothing earth tones and crisp bright whites, creating a refreshing setting for entertaining guests, or simply relaxing. Next to the living area is the tastefully designed kitchen featuring charcoal gray cabinets and quartz countertops, stainless appliances, and an island complete with on-trend industrial stools. The master bedroom, decorated with timeless coastal décor in shades of deep navy and white, looks out onto an expansive pool terrace where tranquil lakefront views can be seen. Other home amenities include a gym, outdoor fire pit and a spacious garage with ample storage.
“With the help of Wayfair, we were able to seamlessly execute the final stage of the HGTV Dream Home 2017, by selecting furniture and decor that matches the distinct style of each room,” said Brian Patrick Flynn, interior designer, HGTV. “Using a mix of vibrant shades and textures, we were able to create a feel that embodies stylish Southern hospitality that’ll make anyone who steps inside feel right at home.”
To preview the HGTV Dream Home 2017, visit: HGTV.com/HGTVDreamHome. Home enthusiasts can watch the Behind-the-Build Special premiering at 11 p.m. ET on December 28, 2016 on DIY Network. The full reveal will air on HGTV on Sunday, January 1 at 8 p.m. ET. Viewers can shop the look at www.wayfair.com/hgtvdreamhome and follow along on social with #HGTVDreamHome.
The HGTV Dream Home 2017 Giveaway opens for entries on December 28, 2016 and runs through February 17, 2017. Official rules and eligibility are available here: HGTV.com/HGTVDreamHome.
No purchase necessary. Open to legal residents of the U.S., age 21 or older. Void where prohibited. Sweepstakes starts at 9 a.m. ET on 12/28/16 and ends at 5 p.m. ET on 2/17/17. Odds of winning depend on number of entries received. For full official rules, visit www.HGTV.com or send a self-addressed stamped envelope to: “HGTV Dream Home Giveaway 2017” P.O. Box 52915, Knoxville, TN 37950. Main Sponsor: Scripps Networks, LLC d/b/a Home & Garden Television.
About Wayfair
Wayfair Inc. offers an extensive selection of home furnishings and décor across all styles and price points. The Wayfair family of brands includes:
Wayfair generated $3.14 billion in net revenue for the twelve months ended September 30, 2016. Headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts with operations throughout North America and Europe, the company employs more than 5,600 people.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005769/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005769/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}