CALGARY, Alberta--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AccelerateAB, Alberta’s annual flagship technology event, is proud to announce the 2017 opening keynote speaker: Alexander Manu.
Alexander Manu is a strategic innovation practitioner, international lecturer, and author who has worked with executive teams in Fortune 500 companies such as Motorola, LEGO, Whirlpool, Nokia, Navteq, and Unilever. He transforms organizations by exploring and defining new competitive spaces, developing new strategic business competencies, and creating imaginative innovation methods.
“The exploration of possibility requires imagination as a prerequisite for strategic change and innovation,” says Manu. “With more startups than ever entering into Alberta’s tech ecosystem, events like AccelerateAB enable entrepreneurs to bolster creativity, innovation, and change.”
Each year more than 400 entrepreneurs, investors, and innovators come from around the province and beyond to engage with Alberta’s fast-growing startup scene at AccelerateAB. This year’s conference will feature two streams, one for early stage startups and the other for late phase startups.
“The tech industry is growing significantly in Alberta,” says Cynthia van Sundert, Executive Director of The A100 and organizer of AccelerateAB. “Our goal with AccelerateAB this year is to make sure that startups at every stage of the lifecycle will be able to collaborate, make connections, and learn from their experience at the conference.”
AccelerateAB starts with the Roundtables event on April 18th, 2017 at Murrieta’s in downtown Calgary. The main conference takes place the next day - April 19th, 2017 - at the BMO Centre, Stampede Park. Tickets go on sale on January 16th, 2017 and will be available for purchase on the AccelerateAB website.
For more information about AccelerateAB, please visit www.AccelerateAB.com.
About AccelerateAB:
AccelerateAB is the province’s annual flagship technology event that brings together key leaders, investors, influencers and supporters of Alberta’s fast-growing startup community, with the goal of leveraging the success of the next generation of technology entrepreneurs across the province. Backed by some of the most high-profile and successful leaders in the industry and spearheaded by The A100, AccelerateAB is one of the best connected events in the province.www.AccelerateAB.com | @AccelerateAB

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005295/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}