BOULDER, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Sovrn Holdings, Inc., advocate and partner to independent publishers who represent more than 80,000 websites, is announcing it has received the Trustworthy Accountability Group (TAG) “Certified Against Fraud” seal after a comprehensive independent audit by the BPA Worldwide. The independent audit process confirmed that Sovrn has processes and controls in place to meet TAG’s rigorous anti-fraud standards.
Sovrn is part of the initial group of companies to receive the anti-fraud seal and one of only two Ad Exchanges and Supply Side Platforms (SSP) to undergo an independent outside audit in order become TAG “Certified Against Fraud.” The TAG seal means brands and agencies can have confidence in Sovrn’s commitment to ensure that their advertising campaigns are being seen by real humans and not an audience of bots.
“We work with thousands of publishers who are creating, curating, and sharing the content that makes the Internet great. These publishers need a partner who is serious about fighting fraud,” said Walter Knapp, CEO of Sovrn. “Going through a rigorous independent third-party audit is one of the most important steps to provide advertisers trust that their ad spend is not wasted on non-human, fraudulent traffic, and instead is directed at high-quality, highly engaged publishers that deserve it.”
“When future business leaders look back on the forgotten scourge of digital ad fraud, they will point to the leadership of companies like Sovrn in helping set a new anti-fraud standard that raised the bar for our industry,” said Mike Zaneis, CEO of TAG.
“Sovrn’s voluntary participation in TAG’s Certified Against Fraud program, and their willingness to have an independent third party certify their compliance, demonstrates their commitment to quality and to improving the online advertising ecosystem,” said Richard Murphy, BPA Worldwide senior vice president, technology Assurance, iCompli.
Publishers and advertisers interested in working with Sovrn can learn more by contacting info@sovrn.com.
About Sovrn
Sovrn believes content creators and publishers are the soul of the Internet. Their content is what makes the Internet great. That’s why we give content creators tools to make money, access to distribution and scale to grow their audience, and a massive data commons for extraordinary insights. At Sovrn we don’t just plug into the online advertising ecosystem. We own and operate a proprietary ad technology stack with direct connections to every major buyer in the world. Sovrn is headquartered in Boulder, Colo. with offices in Denver and New York. For more information, please visit http://sovrn.com or follow Sovrn on Twitter @SovrnHoldings.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006083/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}