PARIS & COPENHAGEN, Denmark--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Onxeo S.A. (ONXEO.PA) (NASDAQ OMX:ONXEO), a biopharmaceutical company specializing in the development of innovative drugs for the treatment of orphan diseases, in particular in oncology, today announced its financial calendar for 2017:
This financial calendar is for indicative purposes only and Onxeo could change its publication dates should it deem it necessary.
About OnxeoOnxeo is a biopharmaceutical company specializing in the development of innovative drugs for the treatment of orphan diseases, in particular in oncology, driven by high therapeutic demand in one of the fastest growing segments of the pharmaceutical industry. Onxeo’s objective is to become a major international player in the field of rare cancers. Its growth strategy is founded on the development of innovative, effective, and safe drugs based on breakthrough technologies that can make a real difference in the treatment of orphan oncology diseases and considerably improve the quality of life of patients affected by rare and aggressive cancers. Onxeo’s comprehensive portfolio features a broad orphan oncology pipeline, with four independent programs in various stages of clinical development, including Onxeo’s first approved orphan oncology drug, Beleodaq®. The Company is headquartered in Paris, France and has approximately 50 employees. Onxeo is listed on Euronext in Paris, France (Ticker: ONXEO, ISIN Code: FR0010095596) and Nasdaq Copenhagen, Denmark (ONXEO.PA).
Onxeo’s orphan oncology products are:
In addition, Onxeo has successfully developed and registered two non-cancer products, which are currently being commercialized in the U.S. and Europe.
Learn more by visiting www.onxeo.com.
To receive our press releases and newsletters, please register on: http://www.onxeo.com/en/newsletter/Follow us on Twitter: @Onxeo_
DisclaimerThis communication expressly or implicitly contains certain forward-looking statements concerning Onxeo and its business. Such statements involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause the actual results, financial condition, performance or achievements of Onxeo to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Onxeo is providing this communication as of this date and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results, financial condition, performance or achievements of Onxeo to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors ("Facteurs de Risque") section of the 2015 Reference Document filed with the AMF on April 29, 2016, which is available on the AMF website (http://www.amf-france.org) or on the company’s website (www.onxeo.com).

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005644/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwalignl {text-align: left !important;} .bwcellpmargin {margin-bottom: 0px !important; margin-top: 0px !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} .bwblockalignc{margin-left: auto !important; margin-right: auto !important;} ;}