DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Indoor Location-based Search and Advertising Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global location-based search and advertising market to grow at a CAGR of 45.95% during the period 2016-2020.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global location-based search and advertising market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated from the annual sales of advertisements by fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) companies, automobile companies, educational institutions, sports industry, and local restaurants and food joints. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
Location-based search and advertising enable users to integrate mobile advertising with mobile technologies such as location-based services. The location-based search and advertising market is likely to grow significantly in the mobile advertising industry.
The use of LED fixtures for location-based services is cost-effective for indoor locations as it eliminates the need for additional hardware Chips manufactured by lighting companies are embedded in the overhead LED lights used in offices. The chips communicate using consumer's smartphones and use sensors to track the direction in which users move inside stores.
According to the report, demand for smartphones has been rapidly increasing every year. This has led to the introduction of new smartphone models into the market by OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and the development of rich and more compelling apps.
Further, the report states that lack of awareness of location-based advertising among users acts as a major hindrance for the growth of the market. Moreover, many advertisers also lack the knowledge of location-based advertising and campaigning, and about the integration of location-based advertising that employs consumer behavioral analytics. Due to this, many SMEs are refraining from investing in location-based advertising, thus affecting market growth.
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by application
Part 07: Market segmentation by technology
Part 08: Market segmentation by end-user's point of presence
Part 09: Geographical segmentation
Part 10: Market drivers
Part 11: Impact of drivers
Part 12: Market challenges
Part 13: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 14: Market trends
Part 15: Vendor landscape
Part 16: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/8tktlg/global_indoor

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005669/en/