DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Consumer Endpoint Security Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global consumer endpoint security market to grow at a CAGR of 11.81% during the period 2016-2020
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global consumer endpoint security market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated from the sales of endpoint security software, including standalone and integrated security software. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
Endpoint security refers to the protection of the corporate network when accessed remotely from devices such as laptops, PCs, tablets, and smartphones. Endpoint security mainly consists of two components; security software and client software. While security software is centrally located, and is installed on the server, within the network, client software is installed on every external device, and connected to the home network. These servers or gateways verify the log-ins from the endpoints and regularly updates the security software of the device. Consumers use devices like smartphones, tablets, laptops for both personal and professional purposes, making endpoint security solutions an essential tool for securing data.
According to the report, one of the primary drivers in the market is increase in use of mobile devices. The increase in the use of smart devices such as laptops, cell phones, and tablets is helping the global consumer endpoint security market grow. Mobiles devices store a lot of critical customer data, which the users access remotely, resulting in the need to protect these devices from loss or theft. The global shipment of smartphones, tablets, and PCs was over 2.5 billion in 2015, and it will reach 3 billion by 2020. Hence, the increased dependence on mobile devices is directly linked to the growth of the global consumer endpoint security market.
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Market summary
Part 03: Scope of the report
Part 04: Assumptions
Part 05: Market research methodology
Part 06: Introduction
Part 07: Market description
Part 08: Market landscape
Part 09: Product lifecycle analysis
Part 10: Geographical segmentation
Part 11: Market attractiveness
Part 12: Market drivers
Part 13: Impact of drivers
Part 14: Market challenges
Part 15: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 16: Market trends
Part 17: Impact of trends
Part 18: Five forces analysis
Part 19: Vendor landscape
Part 20: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/xr42fv/global_consumer

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005672/en/