SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
JC Square Inc. aims to become one of the best players in the IoT platform vendor market and provide solutions for IoT, O2O commerce, and omni-channel retailing in the United States, as it does in Korea and other overseas territories. JC Square and its versatile axonPLATFORM™, which is a trademark name of its own specially developed platform for IoT solutions and services, already has been verified through successful interlocks with not only IoT devices and users’ smart phones, but also other IoT platforms of electronics or telecommunication companies such as Samsung Electronics, LG U+, and KT in Korea, that have the most advanced ICT infrastructure.
JC Square is looking for system integrators, enterprises seeking to use IoT platforms for their digital business initiatives, big or medium scale retailers, and IoT platform vendors.
One of JC Square’s main products is axonPLATFORM™. It manages IoT endpoints (things) and gateways. Also it is customizing and building applications for software development kits [SDK] and application servers. AxonPLATFORM has two layers which are a physical layer such as Wi-Fi or BLE, and a cellular and data layer, MQTT or HTTP.
Smart Shopper system is a unique omni-channel shopping platform which may provide a very easy and simple shopping process, especially in large supermarkets and department stores such as Walmart, Target, IKEA, etc. It provides retailers’ customers with seamless, novel, and comfortable shopping experiences and themselves with means of collecting and analyzing big data related to their customers’ shopping behaviors. Smart Shopper system is being supplied to Lotte Department Store in South Korea, which offers online shopping experiences at an offline store where there is no need to use shopping carts with portable barcode scanner being used instead, and digital convenience by which there is no need to queue in front of a checkout with self-checkout system being provided and to carry purchased goods out with automated delivery service being enabled. It’s a seamless omni-channel shopping platform. The system is a HW & SW Solution system, which has been developed together with SK Telecom and is now being supplied to Lotte Department stores in South Korea. We're exploring the possibility of supplying the system to Walmart, IKEA, and Amazon's 2,000 grocery stores, which are planned to be launched over the next 10 years in North America.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006525/en/