MUMBAI, India--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Leading global IT services and solutions provider L&T Infotech or LTI (NSE: LTI, BSE: 540005) today announced it has completed transition phase of strategic long-term managed services engagement with Insurity to provide end-to-end quality assurance services across clients and product lines. The multi-year, multi-million-dollar contract was signed in July 2016. The transition phase for this complex engagement was completed in 90 days, as stipulated.
Headquartered in Hartford, CT, Insurity is the leading provider of core insurance processing, data and analytics solutions and services. The comprehensive engagement impacts Insurity’s entire product lifecycle, including test strategy, planning, automation and test execution, all while reducing the time it takes to bring solutions to market.
This engagement will lead to continuous improvements in Insurity’s product and services and deliver substantial savings in operating costs. Implemented in an outcome-based managed services model with high degree of test automation, the engagement is uniquely designed to achieve higher quality across Insurity’s comprehensive suite of insurance technology solutions currently in production with more than 100 insurers.
Commenting on the engagement, Bob Larew, Chief Operating Officer, Insurity, said, “Our clients include some of the largest global insurance companies and they demand high service standards for their mission critical systems. LTI brings deep insurance domain expertise and mature program management skills that help us meet high expectations of our clients consistently.”
Anil Vazirani, Chief Business Officer, Insurance, LTI said, “Outcome-based models and automation opportunities are changing the way managed services engagements are delivered. LTI’s MOSAIC Automation platform will help Insurity discover automation opportunities faster and enable real-time governance. We are happy to help Insurity and its clients that rely on this platform for their core operations.”
About LTI:
Larsen & Toubro Infotech or LTI is a global IT services and solutions provider with presence in 22 countries. We solve complex business challenges at the convergence of digital and physical with our real-world expertise and client centricity. We enable our clients to build innovative business models, enhance operational efficiencies and create captivating customer experiences. Visit us at www.Lntinfotech.com or email us at info@Lntinfotech.com for more information.
About Insurity:
Insurity, Inc. enables property & casualty insurers to modernize their enterprise and achieve their business goals. Insurity’s core processing applications and data integration and analysis solutions are backed by rich insurance expertise and are in production with over 100 insurers, processing billions of dollars of premium each month. Insurity’s solutions address the needs of all carriers – from the Top 20 insurers to small or regional commercial, personal, or specialty lines writers, as well as MGAs. For more information about Insurity, call 860-616-7721 or visit www.insurity.com. Connect with Insurity on Twitter, LinkedIn and Facebook.
Additional Information:
Connect with LTI:

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006424/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}