BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Onapsis, a global expert in business-critical application security, today announced that the Onapsis Security Platform integrates with IBM security intelligence technology to provide customers with improved visibility into their network security. Utilizing QRadar to consolidate different sources of network security, this integration with the Onapsis Security Platform (OSP) will extend the existing visibility of QRadar, as well as security process and workflows to include results from OSP.
The new application is freely available to the security community through IBM Security App Exchange, a marketplace where developers across the industry can share applications based on IBM Security technologies. As threats are evolving faster than ever, collaborative development amongst the security community will help organizations adapt quickly and speed innovation in the fight against cybercrime.
The Onapsis Security Platform leverages IBM Security QRadar, the company’s security intelligence platform which analyzes data across an organization’s IT infrastructure in real-time to identify potential security threats. Leveraging QRadar’s new open application programming interfaces (API), the Onapsis Security Platform allows Onapsis and IBM customers to have extended coverage for real-time monitoring and reporting of advanced tacks targeting SAP business systems.
“With this new integration, subscribers of the Onapsis Security Platform can now send OSP events to their IBM QRadar SIEM for increased visibility into their company’s network security. Alarm activity designated by the user is transferred in real-time to QRadar for comparison with information gathered from other sources within the network. This includes things such as including information flows or traffic, and data about ports and protocols, asset context, events from third-party devices, feeds, and other sources to provide your company with a complete security posture assessment,” said Alex Horan, Director of Product Management, Onapsis.
About Onapsis
Onapsis is the pioneer in cybersecurity and compliance solutions for cloud and on-premise ERP and business-critical applications. As the proven market leader, global enterprises trust Onapsis to protect the essential information and processes that run their businesses.
Headquartered in Boston, MA, Onapsis serves over 200 customers including many of the Global 2000. Onapsis’ solutions are also the de-facto standard for leading consulting and audit firms such as Accenture, Deloitte, E&Y, IBM, KPMG and PwC.
Onapsis solutions include the Onapsis Security Platform, which is the most widely-used SAP-certified cyber-security solution in the market. Unlike generic security products, Onapsis’ context-aware solutions deliver both preventative vulnerability and compliance controls, as well as real-time detection and incident response capabilities to reduce risks affecting critical business processes and data. Through open interfaces, the platform can be integrated with leading SIEM, GRC and network security products, seamlessly incorporating enterprise applications into existing vulnerability, risk and incident response management programs. These solutions are powered by the Onapsis Research Labs which continuously provide leading intelligence on security threats affecting SAP and Oracle enterprise applications. Experts of the Onapsis Research Labs were the first to lecture on SAP cyber-attacks and have uncovered and helped fix hundreds of security vulnerabilities to-date affecting SAP Business Suite, SAP HANA, SAP Cloud and SAP Mobile applications, as well as Oracle JD Edwards and Oracle E-Business Suite platforms.
Onapsis has been issued U.S. Patent No. 9,009,837 entitled “Automated Security Assessment of Business-Critical Systems and Applications,” which describes certain algorithms and capabilities behind the technology powering the Onapsis Security Platform™ and Onapsis X1™ software platforms. This patented technology is recognized industry wide and has gained Onapsis the recognition as a 2015 SINET 16 Innovator.
For more information, please visit www.onapsis.com, or connect with us on Twitter, Google+, or LinkedIn.
Onapsis and Onapsis Research Labs are registered trademarks of Onapsis, Inc. All other company or product names may be the registered trademarks of their respective owners.
About IBM Security
IBM’s security platform provides the security intelligence to help organizations holistically protect their people, data, applications and infrastructure. IBM offers solutions for identity and access management, security information and event management, database security, application development, risk management, endpoint management, next-generation intrusion protection and more. IBM operates one of the world’s broadest security research and development, and delivery organizations. For more information, please visit www.ibm.com/security, follow @IBMSecurity on Twitter or visit the IBM Security Intelligence blog.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005414/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}