CAMBRIDGE, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Forrester has been named one of the 50 Best Places to Work in the US in 2017 as recognized by the Glassdoor Employees’ Choice Awards. Forrester was ranked 18th on the Glassdoor list. The award, now in its ninth year, relies solely on the feedback of employees.
“Through their passion and energy, our employees are continuously evolving our amazing culture,” said Forrester Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George F. Colony. “New employees strengthen our workplace by bringing fresh ideas, perspectives, and an intellectual curiosity that is the foundation of the Forrester employee experience. I am incredibly proud and grateful for all that our employees have achieved through their commitment and collaboration.”
To learn more about working at Forrester, go to forrester.com/careers, and check out #ForresterLife on Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube.
The Best Places to Work are determined using company reviews shared by US-based employees between November 2, 2015, and October 30, 2016. To be considered for the “Large” category, a company must have 1,000 or more employees and have received at least 75 company reviews from US-based employees during the period of eligibility. The final list is compiled based on Glassdoor’s proprietary algorithm and takes into account quantity, quality, and consistency of reviews.
The complete list of the Glassdoor Best Places to Work in 2017: http://www.glassdoor.com/Best-Places-to-Work-LST_KQ0,19.htm
About Forrester
Forrester (FORR) is one of the most influential research and advisory firms in the world. We work with business and technology leaders to develop customer-obsessed strategies that drive growth. Forrester’s unique insights are grounded in annual surveys of more than 500,000 consumers and business leaders worldwide, rigorous and objective methodologies, and the shared wisdom of our most innovative clients. Through proprietary research, data, custom consulting, exclusive executive peer groups, and events, the Forrester experience is about a singular and powerful purpose: to challenge the thinking of our clients to help them lead change in their organizations.
About GlassdoorGlassdoor is the world’s most transparent jobs and recruiting marketplace that is changing how people search for jobs and how companies recruit top talent. Glassdoor combines job listings with anonymous reviews, ratings and salary data to help people find a job and company they love. This level of transparency, in turn, helps employers attract the right candidates for their company and culture at a fraction of the cost of other channels. Glassdoor offers employers job advertising, job posting and employer branding solutions in addition to robust talent analytics. Launched in 2008, Glassdoor has job listings and data for more than 600,000 employers in 190 countries and is available on iOS and Android platforms. For labor market trends and analysis, visit Glassdoor Economic Research. For career advice and job-related news and tips, visit the Glassdoor Blog.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005203/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}