Asian stocks are headed for their best week since September, after U.S. benchmarks racked up fresh records on signs the European Central Bank may bolster stimulus down the track. Bonds in the region fell as the yen nursed declines with the euro.
Shares in Sydney rose and futures on equity gauges from Japan to Hong Kong foreshadowed gains after banks drove the S&P 500 Index to a second record-setting day. Bonds in Australia and New Zealand tracked a retreat in Treasuries and European debt after ECB chief Mario Draghi pledged to cut bond buying, while at the same time extending quantitative easing until the end of 2017. The yen was set for a fifth straight weekly drop, as the euro traded below $1.07. Gold held losses with crude oil back above $51 a barrel.
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
While Draghi’s mixed message initially wrong-footed the market, it was eventually seen as a signal to buy with the extension of the current asset purchase program by three months more than economists had expected taking precedence. The attention now shifts to the Federal Reserve, with traders all but convinced policy makers will end the year with an interest-rate hike. The S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average have been breaking records amid speculation Donald Trump will usher in an era of fiscal stimulus.
“This opens up an interesting policy divergence between the world’s largest trading blocs, with the U.S. using more fiscal and less monetary, whereas Europe is using little fiscal policy and highly accommodative monetary policy,” said Matthew Sherwood, head of investment strategy in Sydney at Perpetual Ltd., which manages about $21 billion. “Share markets rallied strongly on the program extension.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Dear Mr. Trump, About Those U.S. IPhones
The Asian data slate is full for Friday, with China to update on consumer and producer prices as well as foreign-direct investment. Australia reports on home and investment lending, Thailand updates on foreign reserves and a gauge of Malaysian industrial output is due. The Philippines also reports on trade.
Stocks
Currencies
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Asian Stocks Set for More Gains as ECB Move Weighs on Bonds, Yen on bloomberg.com