LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Gurucul, a leader in user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) and identity analytics (IdA) for on-premises and the cloud, today announced that its CEO, Saryu Nayyar, received the Bronze Female Entrepreneur of the Year Award in the 13th annual Stevie Awards for Women in Business. Winners were announced at a gala dinner on Friday, November 18, 2016 in New York City.
“Saryu is one of the most effective entrepreneurs, business leaders and technologists I have encountered in my career,” said Gurucul Chief Security and Strategy Officer, Leslie K. Lambert. “Her vision for identifying market opportunities and building advanced technologies to address them is second to none.”
“I am honored to receive the Entrepreneur of the Year Stevie Award for Women in Business,” said Saryu Nayyar, CEO of Gurucul. “Gurucul has pioneered an entirely new security category that uses analytics and machine learning techniques to monitor user and device behaviors and detect threats that otherwise appear to be ‘normal’ activity to other protection technologies. We have doubled our revenues in each of the past three years and are leading our market segment in terms of innovation and customer adoption.”
The Gurucul Risk Analytics (GRA) platform ingests and analyzes huge volumes of data generated when users access and interact with business applications, whether they are in the company’s own data center or hosted in the cloud. The platform applies machine learning algorithms simultaneously across hundreds of thousands of discrete events from multiple data sets to identify anomalies in behavior and provide an early warning system that can detect complex threats that are under the radar of traditional security tools. The Gurucul GRA platform has been successfully deployed by government agencies and global Fortune 500 companies across the financial, healthcare, technology, retail and manufacturing sectors. Customers include one of the world’s largest Internet payment companies, a top 5 US health insurer, large financial services firms, and government agencies.
About Saryu NayyarSaryu Nayyar is a recognized expert in information security, identity and access technologies and security risk management. Prior to founding Gurucul, Saryu was a founding member of Vaau, an enterprise role-management start-up acquired by Sun Microsystems. She has held leadership roles in product strategy for security products at Oracle and Sun Microsystems. Saryu also spent several years in senior positions at the IT security practice of Ernst & Young.
About GuruculGurucul is changing the way enterprises protect themselves against insider threats, account compromise and data exfiltration on-premises and in the cloud. The company’s user behavior analytics and identity access intelligence technology uses machine learning anomaly detection and predictive risk-scoring algorithms to reduce the attack surface for accounts, unnecessary access rights and privileges, and to identify, predict and prevent breaches. Gurucul technology is used globally by organizations to detect insider threats, cyber fraud, IP theft, external attacks and more. The company is based in Los Angeles. To learn more, visit http://www.gurucul.com/ and follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005054/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}