BOWLING GREEN, Ky.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a Berkshire Hathaway company, today announced the appointment of Melissa Burgess-Taylor as the company’s new Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006567/en/ 
Ms. Burgess-Taylor is currently the Senior Vice President of Brand Management and Sales for Fruit of the Loom and Vanity Fair Brands. She has been with the company more than 17 years focusing on the interests of Fruit of the Loom employees and customers while delivering meaningful results.
Warren Buffett, Chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, addressed the Fruit of the Loom leadership team today following the unexpected passing of Rick Medlin earlier this week.
“Rick lived and breathed Fruit of the Loom, and he was an inspirational leader to everyone associated with the company. He will be greatly missed. His contributions were significant and his legacy will continue through the success of Fruit of the Loom and the employees.” Mr. Buffett continued, “I am excited to have Melissa take on this important role as CEO. Already an accomplished Fruit of the Loom leader, she is passionate, smart, and cares deeply about Fruit of the Loom customers and employees. She understands the importance of building a great brand, and she’ll add tremendous value to Fruit of the Loom going forward.”
“I’ve been fortunate to be a member of the Fruit of the Loom family and this great company for many years. We have succeeded due to our people, our strong brands and the powerful relationships we have with our customers,” stated Ms. Burgess-Taylor. “I am grateful for Mr. Medlin’s strong leadership and mentorship, and I am deeply committed to continuing to move us forward.”
Ms. Burgess-Taylor has held various leadership roles within the organization. In her current role, she leads Marketing, Merchandising, Sales, Brand Communications and Creative Services for Fruit of the Loom, Vanity Fair, Lily of France, Vassarette and Curvation brands. Prior to joining Fruit of the Loom, Ms. Burgess-Taylor held roles with Hanes Brands and Mercantile Department Stores. She received a Bachelor of Science degree in marketing with a minor in textiles and clothing from Western Kentucky University in Bowling Green, Ky., and currently resides in Bowling Green with her husband and two children.
About Fruit of the Loom, Inc.
Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a Berkshire Hathaway company, is a global pioneer in the design, manufacture and marketing of family apparel, intimates, and athletic apparel and equipment. With a heritage of more than 150 years, its diverse portfolio of more than 20 iconic brands includes Fruit of the Loom®, Russell Athletic®, Spalding®, JERZEES® and Vanity Fair®. The company is an industry leader in social and environmental responsibility in the communities where it operates around the world. Headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky, Fruit of the Loom, Inc. employs nearly 30,000 people in 17 countries. It provides 200,000 additional jobs through sourcing and licensing manufacturing locations in 30 countries. For more information, visit fotlinc.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006567/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006567/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}