President-elect Donald Trump said China will soon have to "play by the rules" as he introduced the man he intends to nominate as his emissary to the U.S.’s largest economic rival and most important trading partner.
“China is responsible for almost half of America’s trade deficit," Trump said at a rally Thursday evening Des Moines, Iowa. "China is not a market economy...they haven’t played by the rules and they know it’s time that they’re going to start. They’re going to start. They’re going to.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, Trump’s nominee for China ambassador, joined the president-elect on stage at the rally, the third stop of a victory tour through states critical to his election. Branstad has a warm, personal relationship with Chinese President Xi Jinping, but he will confront a Chinese government already on edge over Trump’s early moves to provoke the country, including an unprecedented call with Taiwan’s president.
On Tuesday, the People’s Daily, a China Communist Party newspaper, called Trump a “diplomatic rookie” for his call with Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen. China regards the country as a renegade province.
"With Terry on our side, I know we will succeed,” Trump said. “I know that China has been so tough and so competitive and frankly dealing with people that didn’t get it, but we’re going to have mutual respect, and we’re going to benefit and China’s going to benefit and Terry’s going to lead the way.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Koch Industries Says House GOP’s Tax Plan ‘Could Be Devastating’
Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang on Wednesday called the Iowa governor “an old friend of Chinese people,” and said “we’d welcome him to play a bigger role in advancing China-U.S. relations.” In Chinese diplomatic circles, calling someone an old friend is a compliment. Used to describe a foreigner, it connotes a good understanding of China, analysts said. 
Branstad met Xi in 1985 when he made his first visit to the U.S. as a Chinese agricultural official, traveling to Iowa for a sister-state exchange. The pair have reconnected several times since then.
Branstad periodically visited China since 1984 and has led six trade missions. He’s familiar with the Chinese ambassador to the U.S., Cui Tiankai; the Chinese minister of agriculture, Han Changfu; and other leaders.
More from Bloomberg.com: Air Force One Costs Billions of Dollars Because It’s a Flying White House
Chinese state media have also used the term “old friend” to describe former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who has been shuttling between the U.S. and China to defuse tensions between the two nations in the wake of Trump’s critical comments portraying China as a currency manipulator and a hostile power. 
On Wednesday, the state-run Xinhua news agency said in a commentary that posting Branstad to Beijing is a positive move toward a healthy and stable relationship. It noted that Branstad was dismissive of Trump’s China bashing during the campaign.
While campaigning, Trump accused China of “raping” America of jobs, while vowing to levy tariffs on Beijing and label it a currency manipulator. He’s also pledged to add scores of ships to the U.S. Navy, which China could view as destabilizing should they end up in the Pacific, where the two sides have sparred over navigation rights.
Trump said that every time he spoke with Branstad during the presidential campaign, “he’d always say, ’Mr. Trump, Donald, don’t say anything bad about China when you’re in Iowa.’ I said why. ‘Because I have so many friends there. I like them and they like me. And we do well with China.’”
Branstad was a natural pick for the job, Trump said, although other ambassador hopefuls aren’t happy with him. “I can’t tell you how many people wanted that position,” Trump said. “You know it’s not bad. You go over there, you live like a king.”
Earlier on Thursday, Trump stopped in Columbus, Ohio, to visit with victims of a Nov. 28 attack at Ohio State University that injured 13 people.
Ohio State student Abdul Razak Ali Artan, a Somali immigrant, struck several pedestrians with a car and then attacked people with a knife. A campus police officer shot and killed Artan when he refused to drop his weapon.
The FBI said last week that it appeared Artan acted alone and that he may have been inspired by cleric Anwar Awlaki and the Islamic State militant group. Trump has said in a Twitter posting that Artan is “a Somali refugee who should not have been in our country.”
Trump also has said that as president he would halt the admission of immigrants and refugees from countries with a history of terrorism.
"These were really brave people, amazing people," Trump said in brief remarks after a private meeting with victims of Artan’s attack and their families. "The police and first responders were incredible, the job -- in particular by one young gentlemen -- was incredible. I got to meet him and he was very brave.
"The families have done so well to come through this so well," he added. "And so, a lot of respect."
More from Bloomberg.com
Read China Will Have to 'Play by the Rules' Under New Ambassador: Trump on bloombergpolitics.com