BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Charles River Associates (CRAI), a worldwide leader in providing economic, financial, and management consulting services, today announced that Justus Dehnen has joined the firm as a vice president in the Life Sciences Practice based in Munich. Mr. Dehnen specializes in pricing and market access, contracting, and loss of exclusivity (LoE) strategy development projects for national and international Life Science companies.
"Justus Dehnen’s expansive background in the European life sciences industry adds depth to CRA’s European life sciences offering,” said CRA's President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Maleh. “Justus has direct industry experience, as a former CEO of an international operating biotechnology company, as well as an extensive global consulting background on pricing and market access. We look forward to offering his expertise to clients.”
Mr. Dehnen has helped life science companies to develop and maintain access, pricing, and reimbursement along the product lifecycle from early pipeline to LoE. His work extends over multiple therapeutic areas for pharma, biotech, and medical device companies. Prior to joining CRA, Mr. Dehnen was a Principal at QuintilesIMS Consulting Group where he was a member of the global Pricing and Market Access leadership team and head of the Munich office. Previously, he served as CEO of Genmedics Biotechnology and was a Senior Manager at Cell Consulting AG. Before that he was a member of the Life Science Practice at Capgemini in Paris.
He holds a Master’s degree in Corporate Management and Organisation from the University of Bayreuth and completed post-graduate studies at the University of Bordeaux.
About CRA’s Life Sciences PracticeThe Life Sciences Practice works with leading biotech, medical device, and pharmaceutical companies; law firms; regulatory agencies; and national and international industry associations. We provide the analytical expertise and industry experience needed to address the industry’s toughest issues. We have a reputation for rigorous and innovative analysis, careful attention to detail, and the ability to work effectively as part of a wider team of advisers.
About Charles River Associates (CRA)Charles River Associates® is a global consulting firm specializing in economic, financial, and management consulting services. CRA advises clients on economic and financial matters pertaining to litigation and regulatory proceedings, and guides corporations through critical business strategy and performance-related issues. Since 1965, clients have engaged CRA for its unique combination of functional expertise and industry knowledge, and for its objective solutions to complex problems. Headquartered in Boston, CRA has offices throughout the world and celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2015. Detailed information about Charles River Associates, a registered trade name of CRA International, Inc. is available at http://www.crai.com. Follow us on LinkedIn, Twitter, and Facebook.
.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005602/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}