AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
HID Global®, a worldwide leader in trusted identity solutions, today announced that it has acquired Bluvision, a leading Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) provider in the enterprise Internet of Things (IoT) market. The acquisition transaction closed today. Financial terms are not being disclosed.
Bluvision is a complete IoT ecosystem provider, offering real-time location system technology, presence and proximity-based location capabilities and condition monitoring solutions as well as cloud infrastructure, gateways, beacons and software as a service (SaaS). The company is a perfect fit for HID Global and will:
“Bluvision will expand HID Global’s offerings with BLE products and help us further differentiate from the competition,” said Stefan Widing, President and CEO of HID Global. “We are extending our lead in BLE-based IoT solutions that we created when we launched our mobile access solution two years ago. With our combined solutions and technologies, our customers' ability to manage assets and people within buildings will increase significantly.”
Jimmy Buchheim, the head of Bluvision, said, “Becoming part of HID Global, Bluvision will have the support and expertise to continue driving technology to the next level in the Internet of Things space for years to come and speed up our cycles of innovation. We share a common vision with HID Global to deliver an unparalleled combination of accuracy, convenience, security and scalability that enables our customers to determine the specific location and condition of assets and people in real time in ways that were previously not possible.”
The Bluvision team will report to Marc Bielmann, VP & Managing Director of the Identification Technologies business within HID Global. The addition of Bluvision’s products expands HID Global’s “component continuum” from high-end, passive RFID components (LF/HF/UHF) to active BLE. In addition, Bluzone from Bluvision delivers cloud services that are well aligned with HID Global’s data services strategy. Bluvision will continue to maintain its operations in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
About Bluvision
Founded in the year 2014, Bluvision was the first to offer a cloud solution that allows remote, worldwide beacon deployment and management. The Bluvision platform aggregates and analyzes large amounts of sensor data, utilizing its cloud-based location engine, advanced visualization tools and its management of its beacons.
Bluvision’s highly scalable end-to-end IoT platform is built to scale to millions of connected units (or objects) and manage and monitor networks of tens of thousands of assets. Its real-time location system is used for tracking assets with industry-leading accuracy with features, including heat maps, geofences and flexible policy creation. It also determines motorized equipment health and preventative maintenance actions by using advanced algorithms and telemetry data, such as temperature, vibration, movement, ambient light and other sensor-based data.
Bluvision was selected as the hardware partner for enabling tunnel navigation capabilities by Google’s Waze business unit. Utilizing Bluvision technology, Waze, the free, real time, crowdsourced traffic and navigation app powered by drivers, has developed a viable solution that addresses ‘tunnel blindness’ in the absence of GPS. Bluvision’s industry-leading Bluetooth sensor beacons, along with Waze innovative software, are the perfect solution to the challenges with tunnel navigation and accuracy in ETA.
For more information, go to Bluvision’s website.
Stay Connected with HID Global
Visit our Media Center, read our Industry Blog, and follow us on Facebook and Twitter.
About HID Global
HID Global is the trusted source for innovative products, services, solutions, and know-how related to the creation, management, and use of secure identities for millions of people around the world. The company’s served markets include physical and logical access control, including strong authentication and credential management; card printing and personalization; visitor management systems; highly secure government and citizen ID; and identification RFID technologies used in animal ID and industry and logistics applications. The company’s primary brands include ActivID®, EasyLobby®, FARGO®, IdenTrust®, LaserCard®, Lumidigm®, Quantum Secure, and HID®. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, HID Global has over 2,700 employees worldwide and operates international offices that support more than 100 countries. HID Global® is an ASSA ABLOY Group brand. For more information, visit http://www.hidglobal.com.
® HID and the HID logo trademarks or registered trademarks of HID Global or its licensors in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, and product or service names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005500/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}