DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fenergo, the leading provider of Client Lifecycle Management, Compliance, Data and Digitalization solutions for investment, corporate and private banks has been ranked in the Chartis RiskTech100® for the third consecutive year, moving up 25 places since last year.
Now in its eleventh year, Chartis RiskTech100® is widely acknowledged as the most comprehensive independent study of the world’s major players in risk and compliance technology.
Fenergo saw notable rises in the 2017 rankings across all categories including Functionality, Core Technology, Strategy and Innovation, but saw the most significant increases in Market Presence (up 13% from last year and covering market penetration, market potential and momentum) and Customer Service (up 8% from last year’s rankings covering value for money, after-sales service and support, and product updates).
Commenting on his company’s position in this year’s ranking, Marc Murphy, CEO of Fenergo, said, “We are absolutely delighted to have achieved such a significant increase in this year’s Chartis RiskTech100® ranking of the top risk and compliance organizations in the world. We’ve worked hard over the last year to improve our approach to business and technology across all fronts. In particular, we’ve focused on building a stronger, more connected community network through various forums such as our Client Advisory Board, Regulatory Forums, User Groups and industry Roundtable and Summit series, all of which is fed directly into our strategy, products, technologies, knowledge experts and regulatory roadmaps. This approach has resulted in new client wins, the launch of new solutions and will position the company for future global growth”.
“This year’s rankings illustrate the rapidly changing risk and compliance technology landscape,” said Peyman Mestchian, Managing Partner at Chartis Research. “Vendors are under more pressure than ever before to develop solutions that solve real industry challenges and deliver greater return on investment. With a notable rise in rankings across all categories this year, Fenergo continues to capture market share and attention by closely aligning its Client Lifecycle Management solutions with financial institutions’ needs, delivering solutions that help banks comply with a wide range of regulations, manage client data across the enterprise and create a more efficient onboarding and lifecycle management process.”
Fenergo works with some of the world’s largest financial institutions including HSBC, Barclays, UBS, BBVA and Bank of New York Mellon. The company has recently launched new solutions for Margin Requirements Compliance, Data Integration Management and KYC/AML updates.
- Ends –
About Fenergo (www.fenergo.com):
Fenergo is a leading provider of Client Lifecycle Management software solutions for investment, corporate, commercial and private banks. Its solutions help institutions to efficiently manage the end-to-end regulatory onboarding and client data management processes. Its rules-driven solution ensures compliance with multiple regulatory frameworks and supports the collection, centralization and sharing of client and counterparty data and documentation across the institution. By expediting compliance and improving operational efficiencies, Fenergo’s solutions can onboard clients faster, improve time to revenue and overall client experience. Fenergo’s recent accolades include: Top Performer in RegTech Performance (Banking Technology / MarketFintech, 2016); Best Compliance Product (Sell-Side Technology Awards 2016), FinTech Forward Company to Watch (American Banker, 2015), Chartis RiskTech100® (2016 and 2015) and Best Enterprise Data Management Initiative (Inside Reference Data, 2014).
About Chartis
Chartis is the leading provider of research and analysis on the global market for risk technology and is part of Incisive Media which has market leading brands such as Risk and Waters Technology. Chartis' goal is to support enterprises as they drive business performance through better risk management, corporate governance and compliance and to help clients make informed technology and business decisions by providing in-depth analysis and actionable advice on virtually all aspects of risk technology.
RiskTech Quadrant®, RiskTech100® and FinTech QuadrantTM are registered trademarks of Chartis Research (http://www.chartis-research.com).

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006074/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}