CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has revised the Rating Outlooks for various Mexican corporates to Negative from Stable. A full list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
The Outlook revisions follows Fitch's revision of Mexico's Rating Outlook to Negative from Stable on Friday Dec. 9, 2016. The revision of Mexico's Outlook reflects increased downside risks to Mexico's growth outlook and the challenges this could pose for stabilization of public debt burden. Mexico's growth has been underperforming its rating peers and the general government debt burden has been increasing steadily in recent years. Mexico's modest growth profile is a rating weakness. Its five-year growth average of 2.4% is weaker than the 'BBB' median of 3.1%. Fitch has cut its growth forecast for Mexico to below 2% for 2017, and downside risks continue to persist. Furthermore, public finances have been facing pressure from the decline in oil income, although the expansion of the non-oil revenue base from the 2013 revenue-enhancing reform and spending adjustments have helped absorb this shock.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The foreign currency ratings of the following companies could be negatively impacted by a negative rating action on the sovereign rating of Mexico and/or a downgrade of its country ceiling.
The main factors that could, individually or collectively, lead to a downgrade of Mexico's ratings are:
--A deterioration in the economic, trade, and financial links of Mexico with the U.S. that dampen Mexico's investment and growth prospects;
--Weak economic growth performance and/or fiscal deterioration leading to a worsening of government debt dynamics;
--Materialization of contingent liabilities that undermine the sovereign's balance sheet;
--A deterioration in the consistency, flexibility and credibility of the macroeconomic policy framework.
The Rating Outlook is Negative. Consequently, Fitch's sensitivity analysis does not currently anticipate developments with a high likelihood of leading to a positive rating change. Future developments that could individually, or collectively, result in a stabilization of the Outlook include:
--Reduced risks of disruption to trade and financial (including foreign direct investment) flows to Mexico;
--Improved growth performance and successful fiscal; consolidation that improves the outlook for the public debt trajectory;
--Sustained credibility and flexibility of the macroeconomic policy framework that supports the country's ability to confront economic challenges.
Fitch has affirmed following corporates:
Arca Continental, S.A.B. DE C.V.
--Long-term Foreign Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'A'; Outlook Stable.
Fitch has affirmed following corporates and revised their Rating Outlook to Negative from Stable:
Kimberly Clark de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. (KCM)
--Long-term Foreign Currency IDR at 'A'; Outlook Revised to Negative from Stable.
Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE)
--Long-term Foreign Currency IDR at 'BBB+'; Outlook Revised to Negative from Stable;
--Long-term Local Currency IDR at 'BBB+'; Outlook Revised to Negative from Stable.
Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex)
--Long-term Foreign Currency IDR at 'BBB+'; Outlook Revised to Negative from Stable;
--Long-term Local Currency IDR at 'BBB+'; Outlook Revised to Negative from Stable.
Date of Relevant Rating Committee: [9, December, 2016.]
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
Applicable Criteria
Criteria for Rating Non-Financial Corporates (pub. 27 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/885629
Parent and Subsidiary Rating Linkage (pub. 31 Aug 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886557
Rating Non-Financial Corporates Above the Country Ceiling (pub. 21 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882817
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016267
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016267
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005753/en/