NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed 10 classes of Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage Securities Inc. (WFRBS) commercial mortgage pass-through certificates series 2012-C6. A detailed list of rating actions follows at the end of this release.
Fitch has issued a focus report on this transaction. The report provides a detailed and up-to-date perspective on key credit characteristics of the WFRBS 2012-C6 transaction and property-level performance of the related trust loans.
KEY RATING DRIVERSThe affirmations are based on the stable performance of the underlying collateral. As of the October 2016 distribution date, the pool's aggregate principal balance has been reduced by 17.5% to $763.2 million from $925 million at issuance. There is one loan in special servicing (0.3%) and five loans are defeased (8.8%). Eight loans (10.1%) appear on the servicer watchlist due to declines in debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) or occupancy, large tenant lease expiration, and a pending loan maturity.
Stable Performance: Overall pool performance remains stable from issuance. As of year-end 2015, aggregate pool-level NOI improved 2.2% from 2014 and remains 4.5% higher than NOI at issuance.
Moderate Paydown and Defeasance: The transaction has paid down 17.5% from issuance including the payoff of the second largest loan, Windsor Hotel Portfolio II. Additionally, five loans (8.8%) are defeased including the third largest loan, WPC Self-Storage Portfolio (6.3%).
Transaction Amortization: Except for one interest-only loan (1.2%), all of the loans in the pool are amortizing as of October 2016. Twenty-eight loans, representing 25.5% of the pool, amortize on schedules of 25 years or less.
Granular Pool: With 83 loans, 143 properties, and a top 10 concentration of only 37.3%, this transaction is more diverse than other CMBS multiborrower transactions. Loans secured by multiple assets or cross collateralization represent 18.1% of the pool. The average loan size is $9.2 million as compared to $19 million for Fitch-rated transactions in the 2012 vintage.
High Retail Exposure: Loans backed by retail properties represent 39.4% of the pool, including seven within the top 15. Eleven loans (16.1%) have exposure to grocery anchor tenants. None of the retail loans have regional mall exposure.
Substantial Geographic Concentration: The pool is geographically concentrated with 38 properties (29.7% of the pool) located in California, including five of the top 15 loans. The properties are located in 10 different MSAs, with 28 properties (20.6%) located in Southern California and 10 (9.1%) in Northern California.
The specially serviced asset (0.3% of the pool) is secured by a 541-unit self-storage facility located in Ft. Worth, TX. The loan transferred in April 2015 due to the bankruptcy filing of a guarantor. The loan has remained current, as the guarantor's bankruptcy case is still pending. A rent roll dated June 2016 indicates that the property is 88% occupied. The DSCR as of June 2016 was reported to be 2.45x.
Two notable loans of concern include the following loans:
The Commerce Park IV & V loan (1.84%) is secured by a 229,459 square foot (sf) office property in Beachwood, OH. As of October 2016, occupancy declined to 83% from 92% at issuance. As a result of deteriorating occupancy trends, NOI has declined 26% from issuance. YE2015 NOI DSCR was 1.48x as compared to 2.01x at issuance. The loan is current as of the October 2016 remittance.
The Holiday Inn - Odessa loan (0.98%) is secured by a 102-key full-service hotel in Odessa, TX. As of March 2016, occupancy had declined to 54% from 72% in 2014 and 84% at issuance. The property is located in the oil and gas region of Texas, which has experienced declines in economic performance. As of March 2016, occupancy had declined to 54% with NOI DSCR of 1.10x as compared to 84% and 1.94x at issuance. The loan is current as of the October 2016 remittance.
RATING SENSITIVITIESRating Outlooks for all classes remain Stable due to overall stable performance of the pool and continued amortization. Upgrades may occur with improved pool performance and additional paydown or defeasance. Downgrades to the classes are possible should overall pool performance decline.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10No third-party due diligence was provided or reviewed in relation to this rating action.
Fitch affirms the following classes:
--$32.4 million class A2 at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;--$67.8 million class A3 at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;--$385.4 million class A4 at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;--$586.3 million class X-A at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;--$100.6 million class AS at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;--$42.8 million class B at 'AAsf'; Outlook Stable;--$31.2 million class C at 'Asf'; Outlook Stable;--$47.4 million class D at 'BBB-sf'; Outlook Stable;--$13.9 million class E at 'BBsf'; Outlook Stable;--$13.9 million class F at 'Bsf'; Outlook Stable.
Fitch does not rate the class X-B or G certificates.
The report is available at www.fitchratings.com or by clicking on the link.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com
Applicable CriteriaCounterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006Criteria for Rating Caps and Limitations in Global Structured Finance Transactions (pub. 16 Jun 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882401Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130North America and Asia-Pacific Multiborrower CMBS Surveillance Criteria (pub. 01 Dec 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/891159
Related ResearchWFRBS Commercial Mortgage Trust 2012-C6https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/890840WFRBS Commercial Mortgage Trust 2012-C6 -- Appendixhttps://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/677232
Additional DisclosuresDodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Formhttps://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015702Solicitation Statushttps://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015702Endorsement Policyhttps://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006479/en/