SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Pathway Genomics, an innovative commercial-stage genomics company, announced today that Dr. Michael Nova, Chief Innovation Officer, will present at the 24th Annual World Congress on Anti-Aging Medicine in Las Vegas, Nevada. Dr. Nova will present on Nutritional Genetics and Epigenetics in Diabetes and Obesity Management on Friday December 9th at 2:55 p.m. in the Veronese Room (2503-4/2403-4) at the Venetian Hotel. Additionally, Pathway will be exhibiting at the conference in booth 3098.
“Pathway is pleased to be a part of this cutting-edge conference,” said Jim Plante, Founder & CEO. “We strongly believe in preventative medicine and are proud to partner with A4M to promote disease prevention and lifestyle management that enables today’s health practitioners for sustained success in the management of their patients.”
About Pathway Genomics
Founded in 2008, Pathway Genomics offers digital healthcare and genetic testing. Based in San Diego, CA, our CLIA and CAP accredited clinical laboratory provides physicians and their patients in 40+ countries with actionable and accurate precision healthcare information to improve health and wellness. The company’s program with IBM Watson is a smartphone app that merges artificial intelligence and deep learning with personal genetic information. The app provides users with personalized health and wellness information based on the individual’s health history.
Pathway believes in the power of “genetics first” to help make proactive, informed decisions about health and lifestyle. Our physician-ordered tests include assays for diet and weight loss, circulating tumor DNA (liquid biopsy), hereditary cancer, pharmacogenomics and carrier screening. For more about Pathway Genomics, visit www.pathway.com and follow us on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006328/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}