BOULDER, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
A new report from Navigant Research assesses the global wind blade market, focusing on 22 wind turbine manufacturers and 18 independent blade manufacturers, and providing global forecasts for manufacturing capacity, blade revenue, and wind blade installations, through 2025.
Stakeholders in today’s global wind turbine market are committing a greater amount of research and development investment to wind blades than to any other component in wind turbines. Wind turbine original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) are designing blades and drawing from advanced materials offerings from the major chemicals, polymers, composites, and stitched fabrics materials companies, while materials companies are competing to bring higher modulus and strength solutions to market to satisfy clients seeking longer and stiffer blades while controlling cost and supply chain flexibility. Click to Tweet: According to a new report from @NavigantRSRCH, cumulative global wind blade revenue is expected to total $72.4 billion from 2016 to 2025.
“The strength-to-weight value proposition is important in the wind turbine business, where incremental blade size increases result in significantly more energy capture,” says Jesse Broehl, senior research analyst with Navigant Research. “Additionally, because of a major increase in mergers and acquisitions in the global wind market among wind turbine vendors and wind blade manufacturers, many companies along the value chain are being forced to assess and reevaluate their wind blade market strategies.”
Growth rates in the wind blade market from 2016 to 2025 are expected to be limited as wind power has largely peaked and leveled out across the globe, according to the report. Higher growth country markets include South Africa and Latin America, while the two largest markets, China and the United States, are expected to see substantial development over the next few years before decelertaing between 2019 and 2021 as targets and policies are met.
The report, Wind Turbine Blade Technology & Supply Chain Assessment, assesses the global wind blade market, with a focus on 22 wind turbine OEMs and 18 independent blade manufacturers. The study examines how the major global wind turbine OEMs manufacture and/or outsource their blades and their supplier relationships. Global market forecasts for manufacturing capacity, blade revenue, and wind blade installations extend through 2025. The report also examines the key technologies related to wind blades and provides profiles of leading wind turbine OEMs and independent blade manufacturers. An Executive Summary of the report is available for free download on the Navigant Research website.
About Navigant Research
Navigant Research, the dedicated research arm of Navigant, provides market research and benchmarking services for rapidly changing and often highly regulated industries. In the energy sector, Navigant Research focuses on in-depth analysis and reporting about global clean technology markets. The team’s research methodology combines supply-side industry analysis, end-user primary research and demand assessment, and deep examination of technology trends to provide a comprehensive view of the Energy Technologies, Utility Transformations, Transportation Efficiencies, and Buildings Innovations sectors. Additional information about Navigant Research can be found at www.navigantresearch.com.
About Navigant
Navigant Consulting, Inc. is a specialized, global professional services firm that helps clients take control of their future. Navigant’s professionals apply deep industry knowledge, substantive technical expertise, and an enterprising approach to help clients build, manage and/or protect their business interests. With a focus on markets and clients facing transformational change and significant regulatory or legal pressures, the Firm primarily serves clients in the healthcare, energy and financial services industries. Across a range of advisory, consulting, outsourcing, and technology/analytics services, Navigant’s practitioners bring sharp insight that pinpoints opportunities and delivers powerful results. More information about Navigant can be found at navigant.com.
* The information contained in this press release concerning the report, Wind Turbine Blade Technology & Supply Chain Assessment, is a summary and reflects Navigant Research’s current expectations based on market data and trend analysis. Market predictions and expectations are inherently uncertain and actual results may differ materially from those contained in this press release or the report. Please refer to the full report for a complete understanding of the assumptions underlying the report’s conclusions and the methodologies used to create the report. Neither Navigant Research nor Navigant undertakes any obligation to update any of the information contained in this press release or the report.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005905/en/