ETOWAH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
This year, for the first time, C.H. Robinson is recognizing six North American truckload contract carriers with the Key Carrier of the Year Award. Rite-Way Express is the recipient of the award in the 11-50 truck size segment. The company was nominated by its C.H. Robinson carrier representative for the new awards.
Rite-Way Express, as well as the other 11-50 truck fleets with Key status in the program, have exceptional service levels, have demonstrated efficiencies through automation and have established relationships with dedicated carrier representatives.
Rite--Way Express was recognized because the company continues to go above and beyond for C.H. Robinson and their customers. “We have been through a lot together. We rely on carriers like Rite-Way to service our customers,” said Justin Nelson, C.H. Robinson carrier representative. “Companies like this give us A+ service while stepping outside their comfort zone.”
Rite-Way Express is a 50 truck dry van carrier headquartered in Etowah, NC. The company has been in business for over 20 years. “It is great being recognized for our service. I can only think of a handful of times I have been thanked in this industry,” said Dusty Morgan, owner of Rite-Way. “It is great working for a reputable company like C.H. Robinson who shows appreciation for their contract carriers.”
C.H. Robinson’s Carrier Advantage Program supports its 68,000 contract carriers with a three-tier model. The program provides contract carriers earlier access to freight, a dedicated carrier representative, discounts on our Quick Pay program and the ability to submit offers via Navisphere Carrier, C.H. Robinson’s technology platform.
About C.H. RobinsonAt C.H. Robinson, we believe in accelerating global trade to seamlessly deliver the products and goods that drive the world’s economy. Using the strengths of our knowledgeable people, proven processes and global technology, we help our customers work smarter, not harder. As one of the world’s largest third-party logistics providers (3PL), we provide a broad portfolio of logistics services, fresh produce sourcing and Managed Services for more than 110,000 customers and 68,000 contract carriers through our integrated network of 280 offices and more than 13,000 employees. In addition, the company, our Foundation and our employees contribute millions of dollars annually to a variety of organizations. Headquartered in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, C.H. Robinson (CHRW) has been publicly traded on the NASDAQ since 1997. For more information, visit http://www.chrobinson.com or view our company video.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161205006314/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}