MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Trivest Growth Investment Fund ("TGIF") announces it has partnered with Vohra Wound Physicians Management (“Vohra” or the “Company”), the nation’s largest physician group dedicated to providing expert wound care services to patients in post-acute clinical settings, including nursing homes, assisted living centers, and rehabilitation facilities. Dr. Ameet Vohra, Founder and CEO, will continue to lead the Company alongside Vohra’s long tenured management team. The Vohra transaction represents the first platform company investment in TGIF, a $225 million fund dedicated to investing in non-control investments in family/founder-owned businesses.
Through its team of nearly 200 physicians, Vohra offers a complete wound care management program to more than 2,500 partner facilities in 25 states throughout the country. Having completed more than four million patient encounters to date, Vohra has built an exceptional reputation in the marketplace due to its focus on high-quality care, improved patient clinical outcomes, wound care education, and training for its partner facilities. The compelling value proposition offered to patients, partner facilities, and payors has been the cornerstone of Vohra’s success and has allowed the Company to expand quickly into new geographic markets. Since its founding in 2000, Vohra has grown rapidly to become the clear market leader in the post-acute channel by a wide margin. Vohra’s highly capable management team has identified a number of strategic initiatives to continue building upon the Company’s history of success, and with Trivest’s support Vohra will actively pursue these organic and acquisition growth strategies.
“My team and I are very pleased to be partnering with Trivest,” said Dr. Vohra, “their track record of success helping founder-owned businesses achieve the next level of growth will serve the Company very well, and I know that Trivest’s experience will be invaluable as we begin working together to achieve our goals. I am excited to begin the partnership.”
Greg Baty, Partner with Trivest, added, “We are thrilled to partner with Vohra and its talented management team. The Company is the unquestioned market leader with a compelling customer value proposition, a unique business model, and significant white space ahead. Dr. Vohra is a true thought-leader in the wound care space. We could not imagine a better fit for the first investment for our new fund, TGIF.”
About Trivest Partners:
Trivest Partners is a private investment firm that focuses on partnering with founder/family owned businesses in the United States and Canada. Since its founding in 1981, Trivest has completed more than 225 transactions, totaling in excess of $5.5 billion in value. For additional information, please visit www.trivest.com.
About Vohra Wound Physicians Management:
Founded in 2000, Vohra Wound Physicians Management is the nation’s largest physician group dedicated to providing expert wound care services to patients in post-acute clinical settings, including nursing homes, assisted living centers, and rehabilitation facilities. Its team of nearly 200 physicians provides a complete wound care management program to over 2,500 partner facilities in 25 states throughout the country. For additional information, please visit www.vohraphysicians.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005042/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}