Samsung Electronics Co. will create an all-screen front for the Galaxy S8 smartphones coming out next year and scrap the physical home button, people with direct knowledge of the matter said.
The bezel-less displays will provide more viewing real estate while a virtual home button will be buried in the glass in the the lower section, the people said, asking not to be identified because the details haven’t been released. The new phones will only come with wraparound displays using organic light-emitting diode technology, the people said.
Samsung needs the Galaxy S8 to be a hit after suffering through the Note 7 debacle that tarnished its brand, led to an embarrassing recall and may cost the company more than $6 billion. The world’s biggest smartphone vendor is already under pressure from Chinese vendors while Apple Inc. is said to be planning to adopt OLED screens, which are thinner and use less power than liquid-crystal screens while also offering deeper colors.
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
While Samsung is targeting a March release of the S8, that could be delayed until April, the people said. Samsung is adopting tougher testing procedures in the wake of the Note 7 debacle that could push back the launch by about a month, one of the people said.
Samsung declined to comment.
Samsung has featured a physical home button on every previous model in the Galaxy S range. Apple moved to a pressure-sensitive home button with the iPhone 7 that provides a vibrating sensation when pressed instead of an actual click.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Slams Boeing Air Force One With ‘Cancel Order!’ Tweet
Apple plans to ship at least one iPhone using OLED next year, featuring a new look that extends glass from the display to the device’s back and edges, a person familiar with the plan said last month. It’s also said to plan a virtual home button.
The changes to Samsung’s screens will be housed in devices of a similar size to the preceding model, the 5.1-inch S7 and 5.5-inch S7 Edge, the people said. Some of the phones will use Qualcomm Inc.’s Snapdragon 835 chips while others will feature Samsung’s own Exynos processors, the people said.
More from Bloomberg.com: Air Force One Costs Billions of Dollars Because It’s a Flying White House
Samsung also plans to introduce an upgraded digital assistant that will use voice commands to send text messages, make phone calls and provide daily appointment scheduling. The Suwon, South Korea-based company acquired U.S.-based artificial-intelligence software company Viv Labs Inc. in October and said last month that its new S8 will come with AI-enabled features “significantly differentiated” from those in the market. Viv was founded by the developers of Apple’s Siri.
In the three months ended September, Samsung reported a 17 percent slump in net income from the impact of the Note 7 recall. The company has predicted a multibillion dollar hit to earnings in the December and March quarters as well.
The company is considering scrapping plans for a dual-camera on the S8 due to higher manufacturing costs, one of the people said.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Samsung Plans All-Screen Design in New Galaxy S8 Phones on bloomberg.com