DRESHER, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Ascensus, the nation’s largest independent retirement and college savings services provider, has announced the acquisition of independently owned National Retirement Services, Inc., a leading third-party administration firm that provides plan level compliance, administration, and actuarial services.
National Retirement Services, Inc., which was founded in 2001 (with predecessor companies dating back to 1923), employs more than 60 individuals made up of ERISA and actuarial specialists. The firm supports advisor-sold defined contribution and defined benefit plans for over 2,000 clients in four locations (Huntington Beach, CA, Charlotte, NC, San Mateo, CA, and San Diego, CA). As a result of the acquisition, Ascensus will serve over 46,000 retirement plans.
“Joining the Ascensus family is a winning proposition for both our clients and our employees,” said John Sciarra, president and chief executive officer of National Retirement Services, Inc. “We’ll continue to provide service delivery that ensures accuracy, responsiveness, and timelines—only now we’ll be backed by the resources of the largest independent retirement and college savings services provider in the country.”
“One of the things that I value most about National Retirement Services, Inc.’s staff is their culture and commitment to integrity and service excellence,” stated Shannon Kelly, Ascensus’ president of retirement. “Bringing National Retirement Services, Inc. into the fold will expand Ascensus Consulting’s national footprint, which will allow us to offer our services to more clients who are looking for expert retirement plan design and administration while ensuring that current clients continue to receive the care and attention that they deserve.”
About Ascensus
Ascensus is the largest independent retirement and college savings services provider in the United States, helping nearly 7 million Americans save for the future. With more than 35 years of experience, the firm partners with financial institutions to offer tailored solutions that meet the needs of financial professionals, employers, and individuals. Ascensus specializes in recordkeeping, administrative, and program management services, supporting over 46,000 retirement plans and over 3.8 million 529 college savings accounts. It also administers more than 1.5 million IRAs and health savings accounts and is home to one of the largest ERISA consulting teams in the country. For more information about Ascensus, visit www.ascensus.com.
View career opportunities at careers.ascensus.com or on LinkedIn at linkedin.com/company/ascensus. For the latest company news, follow @AscensusInc on Twitter.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006178/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}