NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Rosen Law Firm, a global investor rights law firm, reminds purchasers of Avid Technology, Inc. securities (AVID) from August 4, 2016 through November 9, 2016, inclusive (the “Class Period”) of the important January 20, 2017 lead plaintiff deadline in the class action. The lawsuit seeks to recover damages for Avid investors under the federal securities laws.
To join the Avid class action, go to http://rosenlegal.com/cases-1003.html or call Phillip Kim, Esq. or Kevin Chan, Esq. toll-free at 866-767-3653 or email pkim@rosenlegal.com or kchan@rosenlegal.com for information on the class action.
NO CLASS HAS YET BEEN CERTIFIED IN THE ABOVE ACTION. UNTIL A CLASS IS CERTIFIED, YOU ARE NOT REPRESENTED BY COUNSEL UNLESS YOU RETAIN ONE. YOU MAY ALSO REMAIN AN ABSENT CLASS MEMBER AND DO NOTHING AT THIS POINT. YOU MAY RETAIN COUNSEL OF YOUR CHOICE.
The complaint alleges that during the Class Period, Avid made materially false and misleading statements regarding its business, operations, earnings, and financial prospects. Specifically, the complaint alleges that during the Class Period Avid knew but failed to disclose that because it had not launched all the enterprise level features for its new NEXIS solution product offerings, its enterprise customers were deferring renewals and purchases. The complaint alleges that on November 9, 2016, after the close of trading, Avid suddenly disclosed that both its 3Q16 bookings and revenues had come in considerably lower than the Company had led the investment community to expect, blaming “the transition of the storage product line” and disclosing that “some existing enterprise clients deferred normal upgrade and renewal decisions and new customers postponed investments until the release of functionality targeted to the enterprise market.” The complaint alleges that on this news, Avid’s stock price plummeted 28% on November 10, 2016, on unusually high trading volume.
A class action lawsuit has already been filed. If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you must move the Court no later than January 20, 2017. A lead plaintiff is a representative party acting on behalf of other class members in directing the litigation. If you wish to join the litigation, go to http://rosenlegal.com/cases-1003.html or to discuss your rights or interests regarding this class action, please contact Phillip Kim, Esq. or Kevin Chan, Esq. of Rosen Law Firm toll free at 866-767-3653 or via e-mail at pkim@rosenlegal.com or kchan@rosenlegal.com. Attorney Advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome.
Rosen Law Firm represents investors throughout the globe, concentrating its practice in securities class actions and shareholder derivative litigation.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006491/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}