ALEXANDRIA, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The National Investor Relations Institute (NIRI) announced that at its annual meeting today, NIRI members elected four new directors to four year terms: Jason Landkamer, Director, Investor Relations, Fluor Corporation (FLR); Carol Murray-Negron, President, Equanimity, Inc.; Melissa Plaisance, Group Vice President, Treasury & Investor Relations, Albertsons Companies; and Greg Secord, Vice President, Investor Relations, Open Text Corporation (OTEX).
Valerie Haertel, IRC, Board Chair of NIRI, and Global Head of Investor Relations for BNY Mellon (BK), said, “It gives me great pleasure to announce the addition of these accomplished IR professionals to the NIRI Board of Directors. This new Board class was selected from among the largest group of potential candidates in recent history. The spirit of volunteerism among NIRI members is truly inspiring.”
Haertel added, “I would like to thank those Board members who will be stepping down after their dedicated service to NIRI: Ruth Cotter, Anne Guimard, Dennie Kimbrough and Felise Kissell, our former Chair. We owe each Board member who is completing their service a debt of gratitude as NIRI is better and stronger for their selfless commitment to our mission.
“We were fortunate to have had Felise Kissell’s inspirational leadership and guidance during an important transitional year as we seek to create an even stronger NIRI. I look forward to continuing our partnership as Felise continues her work on the search committee and joins a new onboarding team I am forming to ensure the successful transition of a new CEO once selected and of our newly appointed Board members,” concluded Haertel.
Welcoming Our New Board Members
Jason Landkamer is Director, Investor Relations at Fluor Corporation. He is responsible for communicating with the financial community, targeting potential investors, corporate message development and sell-side analyst relations. Mr. Landkamer has over 20 years’ experience in finance related roles, including 18 years in investor relations. He serves on Fluor’s sustainability committee and designs and produces the company’s annual report. Mr. Landkamer, along with the Fluor Investor Relations team, have consistently been ranked as one of the best Investor Relations Officers and best IR departments for the Engineering & Construction sector by Institutional Investor magazine since 2008. Prior to joining Fluor in 2006, he was with AmeriCredit Corp. for seven years in various investor relations roles, including three years as AVP of investor relations. Mr. Landkamer has been an active member of NIRI since 2000, and has served on the NIRI Dallas*Fort Worth chapter Board of Directors in a number of capacities including at-large board member, treasurer, executive vice president and president. He graduated from Oklahoma State University with a B.S. in Finance.
Carol Murray-Negron is President of Equanimity, Inc. Ms. Murray-Negron coaches senior executives and leaders to optimize their performance, leadership presence, and strategic communications, and is an adjunct professor of investor relations at New York University's School of Professional Studies. Ms. Murray-Negron’s corporate experience includes senior positions with Avon Products, Inc., in both U.S. and International. During her tenure as Vice-President, Investor Relations, Avon's IR program received industry recognition as "Most Improved IR" among mid-cap companies. Other senior positions at Avon included Marketing Vice-President of Asia-Pacific, where she implemented a coordinated regional marketing strategy and also held line (P&L) responsibility for two Asian markets, and Regional Vice-President of U.S. Sales, where she provided motivational leadership to Avon's largest sales group. Ms. Murray-Negron received IR Magazine's Lifetime Achievement Award, and is a Fellow of NIRI. She holds an M.F.A. in Drama from Yale University and a B.A. in English from Chatham University, where she received the 2016 Alumni Leadership Award.
Melissa Plaisance is Group Vice President, Treasury & Investor Relations for Albertsons Companies, a food retailer with approximately $60 billion in sales. Her responsibilities include financing, banking and rating agency relationships, cash management, payments, and investor relations. Prior to this role, she was GVP, Strategic Initiatives, and was engaged in identifying and tracking incremental synergies, negotiating payments contracts, and providing investor relations support for former Safeway shareholders and debt holders. Previously, she was SVP, Finance & Investor Relations for Safeway Inc. with responsibility for the treasury and investor relations departments, and was involved in the company’s strategic development activities. In addition, she had responsibility for Corporate Communications and Public Affairs for five years. Ms. Plaisance also previously served as SVP, Finance and Corporate Communications with Del Monte Foods and as a Vice President in the leveraged buyout group with Bankers Trust Company. She is a member of the San Francisco chapter of NIRI, and served on the Steering Committee of the NIRI Senior Roundtable and as Co-Chair of the NIRI Annual Conference. Ms. Plaisance graduated cum laude from Bucknell University with a B.S. in Business Administration, and received an M.B.A. from the UCLA Anderson Graduate School of Management.
Greg Secord is Vice President, Investor Relations for Open Text Corporation with responsibility for relations with sell-side analysts and institutional investors. Mr. Secord has 20 years of IR experience in both North American and European capital markets, and has managed IR through over 50 acquisitions. He has consulted, advised and counseled many industry leaders including some of the largest technology and insurance companies in Canada. He has created presentation materials for the Toronto Stock Exchange to educate executives of newly listed companies on the fundamentals of best practices IR. He has also been quoted in industry trade publications and is a published contributor to post-secondary text books on business and accounting. He is the recipient of numerous IR Magazine Awards in Canada including for Best Investor Relations Officer, Best Overall Investor Relations, Best Use of Technology and Best Investment Community Meetings. Mr. Secord is incoming chair of NIRI’s Senior Roundtable, and is a past board member for NIRI’s Virtual Chapter, and the Canadian Investor Relations Institute (Ontario).
About the National Investor Relations Institute (NIRI)
Founded in 1969, NIRI (www.NIRI.org) is the professional association of corporate officers and investor relations consultants responsible for communication among corporate management, shareholders, securities analysts and other financial community constituents. NIRI is the largest professional investor relations association in the world with more than 3,300 members representing over 1,600 publicly held companies and $9 trillion in stock market capitalization.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006406/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}