CLEVELAND--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
UK marketers who report high levels of commitment to content marketing do things differently than their peers, and that provides some useful insight for all content marketers. That’s just one of the findings in the new content marketing research released today, Content Marketing in the UK 2017: Benchmarks, Budgets, and Trends by Content Marketing Institute (CMI). The report is sponsored by Tomorrow People.
To see our analysis and download the full report visit: http://contentmarketinginstitute.com/2016/12/content-marketing-uk-research
What did we find?
61% of UK marketers say their organizations are extremely or very committed to content marketing. Those UK marketers are more likely than the overall sample to:
“UK marketers whose organizations are strongly committed to content marketing tend to have different priorities than their peers; for example, they are more likely to have a documented content marketing strategy, allocate more budget to content marketing, place high value on creativity and craft while producing content, etc.,” explains Joe Pulizzi, founder Content Marketing Institute and author of four content marketing books including Content Inc. “We all have the same number of hours in a day. What you choose to focus on during those hours can set you up for content marketing success. This is true for all marketers.”
More Key Highlights from the overall sample:
For research charts, a video, quotes and more, check out this Dropbox.To view all CMI research and to subscribe to our emails visit: contentmarketinginstitutecom/research
About Content Marketing Institute:
Content Marketing Institute is the leading global content marketing education and training organization, teaching enterprise brands how to attract and retain customers through compelling, multichannel storytelling. CMI’s Content Marketing World event, the largest content marketing-focused event, is held every September in Cleveland, Ohio, USA, and the Intelligent Content Conference event is held every spring. CMI publishes the bi-monthly magazine Chief Content Officer, and provides strategic consulting and content marketing research for some of the best-known brands in the world. Watch this video to learn more about CMI, a UBM company. To view all research and to subscribe to our emails visit www.contentmarketinginstitute.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006543/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}