YELLOWKNIFE, Northwest Territories--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Dominion Diamond Corporation (TSX: DDC, NYSE: DDC) (the “Company” or “Dominion”) today reported its third quarter fiscal 2017 (August 1, 2016 through October 31, 2016) financial results. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial information is presented in U.S. dollars.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006314/en/ 
Highlights
1 These are non-IFRS measures. See “Non-IFRS Measures” below for additional information.
“We are pleased to have restarted the Ekati process plant slightly ahead of schedule and within budget, and to see the start of the positive impact of our mitigation strategy which is now helping to generate positive margin contribution from the first sale of commercial production from Misery Main,” stated Brendan Bell, Chief Executive Officer. “Continued improvements in operational performance, combined with our strong balance sheet, will underpin our ability to deliver on our capital allocation strategy which balances investment in growth with a return of capital to shareholders.”
Dividend, Share Repurchase Program and Building Sale
Profit (Loss) Before Income Tax and Net Income (Loss)
Adjusted EBITDA, Cash Flow and Balance Sheet:
Sales and Diamond Market
Production, Development and Exploration
Ekati
Diavik
Guidance
1 The guidance provided in the table above for the Diavik Diamond Mine and the Ekati Diamond Mine are for the calendar year ending December 31, 2016, and the fiscal year ending January 31, 2017, respectively.2 Assuming an average Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of 1.33.3 The term cash costs of production does not have a standardized meaning according to IFRS. See “Non-IFRS Measures” below for additional information.4 Expectations for sales and cost of sales have been reduced in the fourth quarter to reflect the recent demonetization of the Indian rupee. The resulting disruption to trading activity is expected to continue to impact demand for lower priced rough diamonds into the first quarter of fiscal 2018.5 The cash cost of production and capital expenditure guidance provided in the table above for the Ekati Diamond Mine does not include $45 million of mine standby costs incurred during June through September 2016 as a result of the process plant fire. Sustaining capital expenditures include deferred stripping costs of $71 million for fiscal 2017.
See “Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Information” in the Company’s Fiscal 2017 Third Quarter Management’s Discussion and Analysis for additional information with respect to guidance on projected capital expenditure requirements, expected cost of sales, depreciation & amortization and cash costs of production for the Diavik Diamond Mine and Ekati Diamond Mine.
Updated Full Year Production Guidance (100%) 1, 2
1 The guidance provided in the table above for the Diavik Diamond Mine and the Ekati Diamond Mine are for the calendar year ending December 31, 2016, and the fiscal year ending January 31, 2017, respectively.2 Please refer to the Company’s Fiscal 2017 Third Quarter Management’s Discussion and Analysis for additional information with respect to the full year production targets for the Ekati Diamond Mine and Diavik Diamond Mine.3 The Company cautions that the Operating Case mine plan for the Ekati Diamond Mine includes inferred resources which are considered too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves, and there is no certainty that the Operating Case mine plan will be realized.
Corporate Office RelocationOn November 7, 2016, the Company announced the relocation of its corporate head office from Yellowknife, Northwest Territories to Calgary, Alberta as part of the measures taken to reduce operating costs. The move is projected to be completed by the middle of calendar year 2017 and result in annual savings of approximately CDN $19 million.
Qualified PersonThe scientific and technical information relating to the Ekati Diamond Mine contained in this press release has been prepared and verified by Dominion, operator of the Ekati Diamond Mine, under the supervision of Peter Ravenscroft, FAusIMM, of Burgundy Mining Advisors Ltd., an independent mining consultant, and a Qualified Person within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators.
The scientific and technical information relating to the Diavik Diamond Mine contained in this press release has been prepared and verified by Diavik Diamond Mines (2012) Inc., operator of the Diavik Diamond Mine, under the supervision of Calvin Yip, P. Eng., Principal Advisor, Strategic Planning of DDMI, and a Qualified Person within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators.
Non-IFRS MeasuresThe terms Adjusted EBITDA, cash cost of production and free cash flow do not have standardized meanings according to International Financial Reporting Standards. See “Non-IFRS Measures” in the Company’s Fiscal 2017 Third Quarter Management’s Discussion and Analysis for additional information.
Conference Call and WebcastBeginning at 8:30AM (ET) on Friday, December 9, the Company will host a conference call for analysts, investors and other interested parties. Listeners may access a live broadcast of the conference call on the Company's web site at www.ddcorp.ca or by dialing 844-249-9383 within North America or 270-823-1531 from international locations and entering passcode 18047496.
An online archive of the broadcast will be available by accessing the Company's web site at www.ddcorp.ca. A telephone replay of the call will be available two hours after the call through 11:00PM (ET), Friday, December 23, 2016, by dialing 855-859-2056 within North America or 404-537-3406 from international locations and entering passcode 18047496.
Forward-Looking InformationCertain information included herein that is not current or historical factual information, including the estimated timeline to complete the relocation of the Company’s corporate office from Yellowknife, Northwest Territories to Calgary, Alberta, development plans regarding mining activities at the Ekati Diamond Mine and Diavik Diamond Mine, as well as the current production forecast, cost of sales, cash cost of production and planned capital expenditures for the Ekati Diamond Mine and Diavik Diamond Mine, constitute forward-looking information or statements within the meaning of applicable securities laws. Forward-looking information can generally be identified by the use of terms such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “expect”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “foresee”, “appears”, “believe”, “estimate”, “predict”, “continue”, “modeled”, “hope”, “forecast” or other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking information is based on certain factors and assumptions including, among other things, the current mine plan for each of the Ekati Diamond Mine and Diavik Diamond Mine; mining, production, construction and exploration activities at the Company’s mineral properties; the timely receipt of required regulatory approvals; mining methods; currency exchange rates; estimates related to the capital expenditures related to bring the Jay and A-21 pipe into production, required operating and capitals costs; labour and fuel costs; world and US economic conditions; future diamond prices; and the level of worldwide diamond production. These assumptions may prove to be incorrect. Forward-looking information is subject to certain factors, including risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from what the Company currently expects. These factors include, among other things, the uncertain nature of mining activities, including risks associated with underground construction and mining operations, risks associated with joint venture operations, risks associated with the remote location of and harsh climate at the Company’s mineral properties, variations in mineral reserves and mineral resources estimates, grade estimates or expected recovery rates, failure of plant, equipment or processes to operate as anticipated, risks associated with regulatory requirements, the risk of fluctuations in diamond prices and changes in US and world economic conditions, the risk of fluctuations in the Canadian/US dollar exchange rate, uncertainty as to whether dividends will be declared by the Company’s board of directors or the Company’s dividend policy will be maintained and cash flow and liquidity risks. Actual results may vary from the forward-looking information. Readers are cautioned not to place undue importance on forward-looking information, which speaks only as of the date of this disclosure, and should not rely upon this information as of any other date. While the Company may elect to, it is under no obligation and does not undertake to, update or revise any forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, further events or otherwise at any particular time, except as required by law. Additional information concerning factors that may cause actual results to materially differ from those in such forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's filings with Canadian and United States securities regulatory authorities and can be found at www.sedar.com and www.sec.gov, respectively.
About Dominion Diamond CorporationDominion Diamond Corporation is the world’s third largest producer of rough diamonds by value. Both of its production assets are located in the low political risk environment of the Northwest Territories in Canada where the Company also has its head office. The Company is well capitalized and has a strong balance sheet.
The Company operates the Ekati Diamond Mine and also owns 40% of the Diavik Diamond Mine. Between the two mining operations, diamonds are currently produced from a number of separate kimberlite pipes providing a diversity of diamond supply as well as reduced operational risk. It supplies premium rough diamond assortments to the global market through its sorting and selling operations in Canada, Belgium and India.
For more information, please visit www.ddcorp.ca
Third Quarter Fiscal 2017 Highlights
Market CommentaryThe positive market condition of the first half of calendar 2016 was followed in the third quarter by more muted demand as the rough diamond cutting and polishing industry approached the annual shutdown period for Diwali in India. Prices have decreased by an average of 5% over Q2 fiscal 2017 reflecting this seasonal weakness in the market for lower priced rough diamonds. In addition, the demonetization of the Indian rupee following the third quarter is expected to delay a return to normal trading activity in these goods which normally are in strong demand as factories return to work to meet the restocking requirements of retail jewelers after the holiday sales season. This disruption is expected to continue to impact demand for lower priced rough diamonds into the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Caution prevailed in the diamond pipeline as polished diamond stocks built up through the quarter, but stable US retail demand has built expectations for a good holiday season. The retail jewelry market in China was noticeably more active as evidenced by a positive Hong Kong trade show in September. Mainland based jewelers are more upbeat than their Hong Kong based counterparts who are still suffering from subdued demand in the local market.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
PREPARED AS OF DECEMBER 8, 2016 (ALL FIGURES ARE IN UNITED STATES DOLLARS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
Basis of PresentationThe following is management’s discussion and analysis (“MD&A”) of the results of operations for Dominion Diamond Corporation (the “Company”) for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2016, and its financial position as at October 31, 2016. This MD&A is based on the Company’s unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standard 34 (“IAS 34”), as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), and should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2016 and with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2016. These consolidated financial statements are expressed in United States dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company. Unless otherwise specified, all financial information is presented in United States dollars. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to (i) “third quarter,” “Q3 2017” and “Q3 fiscal 2017” refer to the three months ended October 31, 2016; (ii) “Q3 fiscal 2016” and “Q3 2016” refer to the three months ended October 31, 2015; (iii) “YTD Q3 fiscal 2017” refers to the nine months ended October 31, 2016 and (iv) “YTD Q3 fiscal 2016” refers to the nine months ended October 31, 2015.
Caution Regarding Forward-Looking InformationCertain information included in this MD&A constitutes forward-looking information within the meaning of Canadian and United States securities laws. Forward-looking information can generally be identified by the use of terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “foresee,” “appears,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” “objective,” “modelled,” “hope,” “forecast” or other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking information relates to management’s future outlook and anticipated events or results, and can include statements or information regarding plans for mining, development, production and exploration activities at the Company’s mineral properties, projected capital expenditure requirements, liquidity and working capital requirements, estimated production from the Ekati Diamond Mine and Diavik Diamond Mine, expectations concerning the diamond industry, and expected cost of sales, cash operating costs and gross margin. Forward-looking information included in this MD&A includes the estimated timeline to complete the relocation of the Company’s corporate head office from Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, to Calgary, Alberta, as well as the current production forecast, cost of sales, cash cost of production, and gross margin estimates and planned capital expenditures for the Diavik Diamond Mine and other forward-looking information set out under “Diavik Operations Outlook,” and the current production forecast, cost of sales, cash cost of production, and gross margin estimates and planned capital expenditures for the Ekati Diamond Mine and other forward-looking information set out under “Ekati Operations Outlook.”
Forward-looking information is based on certain factors and assumptions described below and elsewhere in this MD&A, including, among other things, the current mine plans for each of the Ekati Diamond Mine and the Diavik Diamond Mine; mining, production, construction and exploration activities at the Company’s mineral properties; the timely receipt of required regulatory approvals; mining methods; currency exchange rates; estimates related to the capital expenditures required to bring the Jay, Sable and A-21 pipes into production; required operating and capital costs, labour and fuel costs, world and US economic conditions, future diamond prices, and the level of worldwide diamond production. While the Company considers these assumptions to be reasonable based on the information currently available to it, they may prove to be incorrect. Forward-looking information is subject to certain factors, including risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from what the Company currently expects. These factors include, among other things, the uncertain nature of mining activities, including risks associated with underground construction and mining operations; risks associated with joint venture operations, including risks associated with the inability to control the timing and scope of future capital expenditures; risks associated with the estimates related to the capital expenditures required to bring the Jay, Sable and A-21 pipes into production; the risk that the operator of the Diavik Diamond Mine may make changes to the mine plan and other risks arising because of the nature of joint venture activities; risks associated with the remote location of, and harsh climate at, the Company’s mineral property sites; variations in mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates or expected recovery rates; failure of plant, equipment or processes to operate as anticipated; risks resulting from macro-economic uncertainty in other financial markets; risks associated with regulatory requirements and the ability to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals; the risk that diamond price assumptions may prove to be incorrect; modifications to existing practices so as to comply with any future permit conditions that may be imposed by regulators; delays in obtaining approvals and lease renewals; the risk of fluctuations in diamond prices and changes in US and world economic conditions; uncertainty as to whether dividends will be declared by the Company’s Board of Directors or whether the Company’s dividend policy will be maintained; the risk of fluctuations in the Canadian/US dollar exchange rate; and cash flow and liquidity risks. Please see page 35 of this MD&A, as well as the Company’s current Annual Information Form, available at www.sedar.com and www.sec.gov, for a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties involved in the Company’s operations. Actual results may vary from the forward-looking information.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue importance on forward-looking information, which speaks only as of the date of this MD&A – they should not rely upon this information as of any other date. Due to assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including the assumptions, risks and uncertainties identified above and elsewhere in this MD&A, actual events may differ materially from current expectations. The Company uses forward-looking statements because it believes such statements provide useful information with respect to the currently expected future operations and financial performance of the Company, and cautions readers that the information may not be appropriate for other purposes. While the Company may elect to do so, it is under no obligation and does not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise at any particular time, except as required by law.
Business OverviewThe Company is focused on the mining and marketing of rough diamonds to the global market. The Company supplies rough diamonds to the global market from its operation of the Ekati Diamond Mine (in which it owns a controlling interest) and its 40% ownership interest in the Diavik Diamond Mine. Both mineral properties are located at Lac de Gras in Canada’s Northwest Territories.
The Company controls the Ekati Diamond Mine as well as the associated diamond sorting and sales facilities in Toronto, Canada; Mumbai, India; and Antwerp, Belgium. The Company acquired its initial interest in the Ekati Diamond Mine on April 10, 2013. The Ekati Diamond Mine consists of the Core Zone, which includes the current operating mine and other permitted kimberlite pipes, as well as the Buffer Zone, an adjacent area hosting kimberlite pipes having both development and exploration potential, such as the Jay kimberlite pipe and the Lynx kimberlite pipe. The Company controls and consolidates the Ekati Diamond Mine; the interests of minority shareholders are presented as non-controlling interests in the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has an ownership interest in the Diavik group of mineral claims. The Diavik Joint Venture (the “Diavik Joint Venture”) is an unincorporated joint arrangement between Diavik Diamond Mines (2012) Inc. (“DDMI”) (60%) and Dominion Diamond Diavik Limited Partnership (“DDDLP”) (40%), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, where DDDLP holds an undivided 40% ownership interest in the assets, liabilities and expenses of the Diavik Diamond Mine. DDMI is the operator of the Diavik Diamond Mine and DDMI is a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc of London, England. The Company receives 40% of the diamond production from the Diavik Diamond Mine.
In January 2016, the management committee of the Buffer Zone approved a program and budget for the Buffer Zone for fiscal year 2017. In March 2016, Archon Minerals Limited (“Archon”) provided notice to Dominion Diamond Ekati Corporation (“DDEC”), the operator of the Buffer Zone, of its objection to certain elements of the fiscal 2017 program and budget, and indicated that it was only prepared to contribute to certain portions of the program and budget. Accordingly, the Company has elected to fund all of the cash calls for those elements of the fiscal 2017 program and budget that will not be funded by Archon. Archon has asserted that its objection to the fiscal 2017 program and budget was based on its position that certain proposed expenditures in the fiscal 2017 program and budget were in breach of the terms of the Buffer Zone Joint Venture agreement and, as such, the management committee of the Buffer Zone was not permitted to approve those aspects of the fiscal 2017 program and budget. A revised program and budget for fiscal year 2017 was presented to the management committee of the Buffer Zone in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to incorporate changes to the mine plan impacting the Lynx Project in the Buffer Zone. Dilution of Archon’s participating interest in the Buffer Zone had been expected in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 but has been temporarily withheld pending further discussion between parties.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company announced its approval to proceed with the development of the Jay Project based on the results of the Jay Feasibility Study and has delivered the Jay Feasibility Study to Archon. The Company expects an investment decision from Archon with respect to the Jay Project at the end of fiscal 2017.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS(expressed in millions of United States dollars, except per share amounts and where otherwise noted)(unaudited)
(i) Prior year figures have been restated as a result of retrospective application of a voluntary change in accounting policy related to asset retirement obligations (“ARO”). For further details, refer to note 3 of the condensed consolidated interim financial statements for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2016 and the consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2016.(ii) Earnings per share for the third quarter increased by $0.26 per share mainly due to the recognized gain on the sale of the Company’s downtown Toronto office building offset by the expensing of mine standby costs. The impact to the nine months ended October 31, 2016 was a decrease of $0.07 per share.(iii) The terms “Adjusted EBITDA,” “Adjusted EBITDA margin” and “free cash flow” do not have standardized meanings according to IFRS. See “Non-IFRS Measures” for additional information.
Three Months Ended October 31, 2016, Compared to Three Months Ended October 31, 2015CONSOLIDATED SALESConsolidated sales for the third quarter totalled $102.7 million (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $145.0 million), consisting of Ekati Diamond Mine rough diamond sales of $54.8 million (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $88.2 million) and Diavik rough diamond sales of $47.9 million (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $56.9 million).
The Company expects that the results for its mining operations will fluctuate depending on the seasonality of production at its mineral properties; the number of sales events conducted during the quarter; rough diamond prices; and the volume, size and quality distribution of rough diamonds delivered from the Company’s mineral properties and sold by the Company in each quarter. See the “Segmented Analysis” section for additional information.
CONSOLIDATED COST OF SALES AND GROSS MARGINThe Company’s cost of sales includes costs associated with mining, processing, and rough diamond sorting activities. Consolidated gross margin in the current quarter was positively influenced by the sale of higher value Misery Main carats that were mined in the commercial production period after May 1, 2016 and processed prior to the shutdown of the Ekati process plant in June 2016.
CONSOLIDATED SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSESThe principal components of selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses of $8.9 million include expenses for salaries and benefits, professional fees, consulting and travel. SG&A decreased by $0.1 million from Q3 fiscal 2016.
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING (LOSS) PROFITConsolidated operating loss increased by $18.6 million from $9.5 million in Q3 fiscal 2016 to negative $9.1 million in Q3 fiscal 2017 primarily due to the expensing of $22.4 million of mine standby costs incurred as a result of the approximate three-month suspension of processing at the Ekati Diamond Mine following the process plant fire. Mine standby costs in the quarter as a result of the fire are net of a $6.7 million estimated insurance recovery for property damage and include approximately $7.7 million relating to repairs.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCE EXPENSEFinance expense in the third quarter increased by $2.0 million from $3.0 million in Q3 fiscal 2016 to $5.0 million in Q3 fiscal 2017 mainly as a result of fluctuations in the accretion expense of the Company’s asset retirement obligation (“ARO”). The ARO liabilities are the associated costs relating to site closure, restoration and reclamation activities. The ARO liabilities are denominated in Canadian dollars and are translated to US dollars at the period-end exchange rate.
CONSOLIDATED EXPLORATION EXPENSEThe exploration program and related expenses for Q3 fiscal 2017 focused primarily on work performed at the Fox Deep project at the Ekati Diamond Mine. Exploration costs were in the amount of $0.9 million (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $0.6 million). With the completion of the Jay Project Pre-feasibility Study, and subsequently the Sable Pre-feasibility Study, which established probable reserves for both kimberlite pipes, the Company has been capitalizing costs related to these development assets in accordance with the Company’s accounting policies.
CONSOLIDATED GAIN ON SALE OF BUILDINGOn September 8, 2016, the Company sold its downtown Toronto office building for CDN $84.8 million. Proceeds of $65.1 million were received following closing adjustments. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $44.8 million ($0.46 per share after tax).
CONSOLIDATED FINANCE AND OTHER INCOMEFinance and other income decreased by $0.7 million compared to Q3 fiscal 2016.
CONSOLIDATED FOREIGN EXCHANGEA net foreign exchange gain of $3.3 million was recognized during the third quarter (Q3 fiscal 2016 – gain of $0.3 million). The Company does not currently have any foreign exchange derivative instruments outstanding.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME TAXESThe Company recorded a net income tax expense of $7.9 million during the third quarter (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $0.7 million). Included in net income tax is a net Northwest Territories mining royalty recovery of $0.8 million (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $nil). The Company’s combined Canadian federal and provincial statutory income tax rate for the quarter was 26.5% (Q3 fiscal 2016 – 26.5%). There are a number of items that can significantly impact the Company’s effective tax rate, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Northwest Territories mining royalty, earnings subject to tax at rates different than the statutory rate and unrecognized tax benefits. As a result, the Company’s recorded tax provision can be significantly different than the expected tax provision calculated based on the statutory tax rate.
The recorded tax provision is particularly influenced by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company’s functional and reporting currency is US dollars; however, the calculation of income tax expense is based on income in the currency of the country of origin, a substantial portion of which is denominated in Canadian dollars. As such, the Company is continually subject to foreign exchange fluctuations, particularly as the Canadian dollar moves against the US dollar. During the third quarter, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulted in a $5.5 million increase (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $3.7 million decrease) in the Company’s net income tax expense.
Due to the number of factors that can potentially impact the effective tax rate and the sensitivity of the tax provision to these factors, as discussed above, it is expected that the Company’s effective tax rate will fluctuate in future periods.
NET INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERSIncluded in net income attributable to shareholders was the foreign exchange impact on income tax expense. The weakening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar during the quarter resulted in additional income tax expense of $5.5 million or $0.06 per share (Q3 fiscal 2016 – income tax recovery of $3.7 million or $0.04 per share); with $3.5 million of expense or $0.04 per share for the quarter (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $7.8 million of recovery or $0.09 per share) relating to revaluations of foreign currency non-monetary items and of the deferred tax liability, both of which are non-cash items.
Nine Months Ended October 31, 2016, Compared to Nine Months Ended October 31, 2015CONSOLIDATED SALESConsolidated sales during the YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 period totalled $441.0 million (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – $542.4 million), consisting of Ekati Diamond Mine rough diamond sales of $197.7 million (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – $353.2 million) and Diavik Diamond Mine rough diamond sales of $243.2 million (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – $189.2 million). See “Segmented Analysis” on page 11 for additional information.
CONSOLIDATED COST OF SALES AND GROSS MARGINThe Company’s cost of sales includes costs associated with mining and rough diamond sorting activities. Consolidated cost of sales and gross margin in the period were negatively influenced by sales of production from lower value Misery Satellites in the first half of the fiscal year. A $19.6 million and a $6.4 million impairment charge of available-for-sale inventory from the Ekati Diamond Mine was recorded in Q1 fiscal 2017 and Q2 fiscal 2017, respectively.
CONSOLIDATED SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSESThe principal components of selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses of $26.1 million include expenses for salaries and benefits, professional fees, consulting and travel. SG&A decreased by $6.8 million over YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 primarily due to a charge in the prior year incurred in connection with the departure of the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer.
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING (LOSS) PROFITConsolidated operating loss increased by $98.7 million from $32.4 million in YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 to negative $66.3 million in YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 primarily due to the expensing of $44.5 million of mine standby costs incurred as a result of the suspension of processing at the Ekati Diamond Mine following the process plant fire. Mine standby costs in the quarter as a result of the fire are net of a $6.7 million estimated insurance recovery for property damage and include approximately $12.7 million relating to repairs.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCE EXPENSEFinance expense increased by $1.3 million from $8.7 million in YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 to $10.0 million in YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 mainly as a result of fluctuations in the accretion expense of the Company’s asset retirement obligation (“ARO”). The ARO liabilities are the associated costs relating to site closure, restoration and reclamation activities. The ARO liabilities are denominated in Canadian dollars and are translated to US dollars at the period-end exchange rate.
CONSOLIDATED EXPLORATION EXPENSEThe exploration program and related expenses for YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 focused primarily on work performed at the Fox Deep project at the Ekati Diamond Mine. Exploration costs were in the amount of $5.9 million (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – $7.8 million) and were incurred for drilling, with the objective to better understand the grade of material of the existing resource which is located at the bottom of the existing pit. With the completion of the Jay Project Pre-feasibility Study, and subsequently the Sable Pre-feasibility Study, which established probable reserves for both kimberlite pipes, the Company has been capitalizing costs related to these development assets in accordance with the Company’s accounting policies.
CONSOLIDATED GAIN ON SALE OF BUILDINGOn September 8, 2016, the Company sold its downtown Toronto office building for CDN $84.8 million. Proceeds of $65.1 million were received following closing adjustments. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $44.8 million ($0.46 per share after tax).
CONSOLIDATED FINANCE AND OTHER INCOMEFinance and other income increased by $0.1 million compared to YTD Q3 fiscal 2016.
CONSOLIDATED FOREIGN EXCHANGEA net foreign exchange loss of $4.5 million was recognized during YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – loss of $0.7 million). The Company does not currently have any foreign exchange derivative instruments outstanding.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME TAXESThe Company recorded a net income tax recovery of $22.6 million during the YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 period (YTD Q3 2016 – tax expense of $17.4 million). Included in the net income tax recovery is a net Northwest Territories mining royalty recovery of $4.9 million (YTD Q3 2016 – an expense of $5.9 million). The Company’s combined Canadian federal and provincial statutory income tax rate for the quarter was 26.5% (2016 – 26.5%). There are a number of items that can significantly impact the Company’s effective tax rate, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Northwest Territories mining royalty, earnings subject to tax at rates different than the statutory rate and unrecognized tax benefits. As a result, the Company’s recorded tax provision can be significantly different than the expected tax provision calculated based on the statutory tax rate.
The recorded tax provision is particularly influenced by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company’s functional and reporting currency is US dollars; however, the calculation of income tax expense is based on income in the currency of the country of origin, a substantial portion of which is denominated in Canadian dollars. As such, the Company is continually subject to foreign exchange fluctuations, particularly as the Canadian dollar moves against the US dollar. During the YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 period, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulted in a $7.3 million decrease (YTD Q3 2016 – $9.2 million increase) in the Company’s net income tax expense.
Due to the number of factors that can potentially impact the effective tax rate and the sensitivity of the tax provision to these factors, as discussed above, it is expected that the Company’s effective tax rate will fluctuate in future periods.
NET INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERSIncluded in net income attributable to shareholders was the foreign exchange impact on income tax expense. The strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar during YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 resulted in additional income tax recovery of $7.3 million or $0.09 per share (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – expense of $9.2 million or $0.11 per share); with $10.5 million of recovery or $0.12 per share (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – $5.3 million of recovery or $0.06 per share) relating to revaluations of foreign currency non-monetary items and of the deferred tax liability, both of which are non-cash items.
Segmented AnalysisThe operating segments of the Company include the Ekati Diamond Mine, the Diavik Diamond Mine and the Corporate segment. The Corporate segment captures items not specifically related to operating the Ekati and Diavik mines.
EKATI DIAMOND MINE (100% SHARE)(expressed in millions of United States dollars, except per share, per tonne or per carat amounts and where otherwise noted)(unaudited)
(i) Figures have been restated as a result of retrospective application of a voluntary change in accounting policy related to asset retirement obligations (“ARO”). For further details, refer to note 3 of the condensed consolidated interim financial statements for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2016 and the consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2016.(ii) The terms “cash cost of production,” “cash cost per tonne processed,” “non-cash cost per tonne processed,” “cash cost per carat,” “Adjusted EBITDA” and “Adjusted EBITDA margin” do not have standardized meanings according to IFRS. See “Non-IFRS Measures” for additional information.
Three Months Ended October 31, 2016, Compared to Three Months Ended October 31, 2015EKATI SALESThe $33.4 million decrease in sales for Q3 fiscal 2017 reflected a reduction in the value of goods available for sale during the quarter as a result of the Ekati process plant fire, as well as the carryover of lower average value goods in Q2 fiscal 2017 for sale in the current period. The increase in number of carats sold and decrease in average price per carat reflects the expected shift in the mine plan beginning in fiscal 2016 from higher value production from the Koala, Koala North and Fox ore bodies to the lower value material from Misery Satellites and coarse ore rejects (“COR”) while pre-stripping was being completed in the higher value Misery Main open pit. Misery Main commenced commercial production on May 1, 2016, earlier than planned. Excluded from sales in the third quarter were proceeds of $9.3 million relating to carats produced and sold from the processing of Misery Main ore during the pre-commercial production period (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $1.8 million from Misery Northeast). Sales of diamonds recovered during the pre-commercial production period at Misery Main have been applied as a reduction of capitalized stripping assets.
EKATI COST OF SALES AND GROSS MARGINGross margin increased from negative $0.7 million in Q3 fiscal 2016 to $6.3 million in Q3 fiscal 2017 at the Ekati Diamond Mine primarily as a result of the sale of Misery Main carats that were mined in the commercial production period and processed prior to the shutdown of the Ekati process plant in June 2016. The margin in Q3 fiscal 2016 was negatively influenced by the processing of lower value Misery Satellite material and COR while pre-stripping was being completed in the higher value Misery Main open pit. The gross margin is anticipated to fluctuate between quarters, resulting from variations in the volume, size and quality distribution of rough diamonds sold by the Company in each quarter and variation in rough diamond prices.
The $39.1 million decrease in cash cost of production from Q3 fiscal 2016 is due primarily to the production shutdown as a result of the process plant fire. Processing resumed at full capacity on September 21, 2016. A majority of mine operating costs, including labour and overhead costs, are incurred in Canadian dollars. See “Non-IFRS Measures” for additional information.
Cost of sales also includes sorting costs, which represent the Company’s cost of handling and sorting product in preparation for sales to third parties, and depreciation and amortization, the majority of which is recorded using the straight-line method over the remaining mine life. Capitalized costs of new pit or underground development are amortized on a unit-of-production basis as the associated material is processed. The $6.2 million decrease in depreciation and amortization from Q3 fiscal 2016 is due primarily to the Ekati production shutdown. Non-cash cost per tonne processed increased from Q3 fiscal 2016 due to depreciation of the Misery Main deferred stripping asset as this ore is processed. See “Non-IFRS Measures” for additional information.
As at October 31, 2016, the Company had 1.2 million carats of Ekati Diamond Mine–produced rough diamond inventory available for sale with an estimated market value of approximately $52 million, including approximately $5 million of Misery Main pre-production inventory (July 31, 2016 – 1.5 million carats and $89 million, respectively, including approximately $15 million of Misery Main pre-production inventory). Pre-production inventory will not be recognized as revenue when sold but rather applied as a reduction of capitalized stripping assets. Available-for-sale inventory included a higher proportion of lower value goods. The Company also had approximately 0.9 million carats of rough diamond inventory that was work in progress (July 31, 2016 – 0.2 million carats) and that were predominantly from Misery Main and Koala underground. Inventory classified as available for sale represents carats that have completed the sorting and valuation process. Carats still undergoing sorting and valuation are classified as work-in-progress inventory.
(expressed in millions of United States dollars)
SEGMENTED (LOSS) PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAXESSegmented loss before income taxes during the quarter increased by $12.1 million from $3.5 million in Q3 fiscal 2016 to $15.6 million in Q3 fiscal 2017, which was primarily driven by a reduction in the value of goods available for sale when compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2016. Refer to the “Ekati Sales” section above for a detailed explanation. Additionally, $22.4 million of mine standby costs were incurred in Q3 fiscal 2017 as a result of the approximate three-month suspension of processing at the Ekati Diamond Mine following the process plant fire. Mine standby costs in the quarter as a result of the fire are net of a $6.7 million estimated insurance recovery for property damage and include approximately $7.7 million relating to repairs.
Nine Months Ended October 31, 2016, Compared to Nine Months Ended October 31, 2015EKATI SALESSales from the Ekati segment decreased $110.0 million over YTD Q3 fiscal 2016. The decrease reflected a reduction in the value of goods available for sale during the period as a result of the Ekati process plant fire on June 23, 2016, and the processing of lower value Misery Satellite material and COR while pre-stripping was being completed in the higher value Misery Main open pit. Excluded from sales in the current period were proceeds of $22.0 million from carats produced and sold from the processing of materials from Misery Main, Misery Northeast and Pigeon pipes during their respective pre-commercial production periods (2016 – proceeds of $7.3 million from Misery Main and Misery Northeast).
Carats sold increased by 61% and price per carat decreased by 67% compared to YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 due to the change in the ore mix, with more production coming from sources having a lower average price.
EKATI COST OF SALES AND GROSS MARGINGross margin decreased from 4.7% to negative 19.9% at the Ekati Diamond Mine primarily due to a change in the ore mix, with more production coming from sources with a lower average price. Gross margin was also negatively influenced by a $19.6 million and a $6.4 million impairment charge of available-for-sale inventory recorded in cost of sales in Q1 fiscal 2017 and Q2 fiscal 2017, respectively. The impairment represents the excess of the inventoried cash and non-cash costs over net realizable value, or the amount the Company realized or expected to realize upon final sorting, valuation and subsequent sale of this inventory. The impairment primarily resulted from production in the first half of the fiscal year having a relatively high proportion of lower value Misery South & Southwest material.
Cost of sales includes mine operating costs incurred at the Ekati Diamond Mine. The $69.6 million decrease in cash cost of production over YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 is due primarily to the approximate three-month production shutdown as a result of the Ekati process plant fire on June 23, 2016. Processing resumed at full capacity on September 21, 2016. See “Non-IFRS Measures” for additional information.
Cost of sales also includes sorting costs, which comprise the Company’s cost of handling and sorting product in preparation for sales to third parties, and depreciation and amortization, the majority of which is recorded using the straight-line method over the remaining mine life. Capitalized costs of new pit or underground development are amortized on a unit-of-production basis as the associated material is processed. The $9.9 million increase in depreciation and amortization over YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 is due to depreciation of the Misery Main deferred stripping asset upon entering commercial production.
As at October 31, 2016, the Company had 1.2 million carats of Ekati Diamond Mine–produced rough diamond inventory available for sale with an estimated market value of approximately $52 million, including approximately $5 million of Misery Main pre-production inventory (January 31, 2016 – 1.0 million carats and $66 million, respectively, including no Misery Main pre-production inventory). Pre-production inventory will not be recognized as revenue when sold but rather applied as a reduction of capitalized stripping assets. Available-for-sale inventory included a higher proportion of lower value goods. The Company also had approximately 0.9 million carats of rough diamond inventory that was work in progress (January 31, 2016 – 1.1 million carats) and that were predominantly from Misery Main and Koala underground. Inventory classified as available for sale represents carats that have completed the sorting and valuation process. Carats still undergoing sorting and valuation are classified as work-in-progress inventory.
(expressed in millions of United States dollars)
(i) Includes $19.6 million and $6.4 million impairment of available-for-sale inventory recorded in Q1 fiscal 2017 and Q2 fiscal 2017, respectively.
SEGMENTED (LOSS) PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAXESSegmented loss before income taxes during the nine months ended October 31, 2016 increased by $110.5 million from $0.2 million in YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 to $110.7 million in YTD Q3 fiscal 2017, which was primarily driven by the production of lower value material. Refer to the “Ekati Sales” section above for a detailed explanation. Additionally, $44.5 million of mine standby costs were expensed during YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 as a result of the approximate three-month suspension of processing at the Ekati Diamond Mine following the process plant fire on June 23, 2016. Mine standby costs in the quarter as a result of the fire are net of a $6.7 million estimated insurance recovery for property damage and include approximately $12.7 million relating to repairs.
Operational UpdateA fire occurred at the Ekati Diamond Mine process plant on June 23, 2016. The resulting damage to the process plant was limited only to a small area with no damage to the main structural components. No injuries were reported. The process plant was subsequently shut down for cleaning and repairs, including the replacement of one of the main degritting screens and associated components, as well as some electrical wiring and related infrastructure. The process plant resumed operations at full capacity on September 21, 2016. Total estimated repair and cleaning costs are $17 million, of which $12.7 million has been incurred as of October 31, 2016. Cost savings measures were implemented subsequent to the fire, including pausing mining at lower value ore bodies, a deferral of non-essential sustaining capital and a temporary layoff of affected staff across the Company. An estimated insurance recovery for property damage of approximately $6.7 million was recorded in mine standby costs in Q3 fiscal 2017. The Company holds business interruption insurance covering losses as a result of the fire, but due to the complex nature of this claim and the relatively recent restart of the plant, amounts receivable under the business interruption claim cannot be determined at this time.
Mining activities during the third quarter focused on ore production, with strong performance from both the higher value Misery Main open pit and Koala underground operations. Approximately 0.7 million tonnes of this higher value ore was in stockpiles at the time the process plant resumed operations. Mining activities were paused at the Lynx and Pigeon open pits as a cost reduction measure during the process plant downtime and resumed in late September 2016.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2017, processing volume was significantly reduced as a result of the Ekati process plant fire. Following the re-commencement of processing in September, the Ekati Diamond Mine produced (on a 100% basis) 1.0 million carats from the processing of 0.4 million tonnes of ore from mineral reserves. Carat production was positively influenced by the processing of a high proportion of high-grade Misery Main ore.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2017, there were no significant environmental incidents at the Ekati Diamond Mine. With respect to health and safety performance, the Company recorded one lost time injury, corresponding to a frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked (“LTIFR”) of 0.20 (Q3 fiscal 2016 – three lost time injuries and an LTIFR of 0.68).
The charts below show the Ekati Diamond Mine carat production, ore processed and recovered grade for the eight most recent quarters.
EKATI DIAMOND MINE PRODUCTION (100% SHARE) – CARATS
Please see associated chart titled "Ekati Diamond Mine Production (100% Share) – CARATS"
EKATI DIAMOND MINE PRODUCTION (100% SHARE) – ORE PROCESSED AND RECOVERED GRADE
Please see associated chart titled "Ekati Diamond Mine Production (100% Share) – ORE PROCESSED AND RECOVERED GRADE"
Ekati Operations OutlookKEY MINING, PROCESSING AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES BY PIPE
(i) Commencement of “commercial” production is defined as three consecutive months of production above 60% of nameplate capacity. The Company defines “capacity” as the average monthly production for the open pit/underground source over the life of mine.(ii) Processing was suspended following the June 23, 2016 fire at the Ekati process plant and resumed at full capacity on September 21, 2016. Mining was paused at Lynx and Pigeon pipes during the shutdown period and re-commenced in late September.
Changes were made to the mine plan in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 as a result of the Ekati process plant fire on June 23, 2016. During the shutdown, mining operations continued at the higher value Koala underground and Misery Main open pit and were paused at the lower value Pigeon and Lynx open pits as a cost reduction measure. Mining at Pigeon and Lynx resumed in September 2016, with first ore at Lynx expected to be achieved in late Q4 fiscal 2017.
Ore mined during the process plant downtime was stockpiled and approximately 0.7 million tonnes of higher value ore from Koala underground and Misery Main open pit was available in stockpiles on September 21, 2016 when the process plant resumed operations. A blend of higher value Misery Main and Koala ore will be prioritized for the remainder of fiscal 2017. Following completion of sorting and valuation, the initial diamonds recovered upon re-commencement of processing are expected to be sold in late Q4 fiscal 2017.
A fine dense media separation (DMS) unit is also planned to be commissioned in the process plant in Q4 fiscal 2017 in order to increase the recovery of smaller sized diamonds.
PRODUCTION
The full year production target for fiscal year 2017 foresees Ekati Diamond Mine production (on a 100% basis) of approximately 4.5 million carats from the mining and processing of approximately 2.5 million tonnes of mineral reserves (the base case). Average grade from Koala underground is expected to be lower than that achieved in fiscal 2016 as the mine plan processes a higher proportion of ore from lower grade phases. Misery Main open pit commenced commercial production on May 1, 2016 and initial sales began in Q2 fiscal 2017. For accounting purposes, sales of diamonds recovered during the pre-commercial production period prior to May 1, 2016 have been applied as a reduction of capitalized stripping costs. Upon re-commencement of processing on September 21, 2016, a blend of higher grade Misery Main and Koala ore is being prioritized. Carats recovered from this higher grade ore will not begin to be sold until late Q4 fiscal 2017 following completion of the sorting and valuation process.
A blend of higher grade Misery Main and Koala ore is planned to be processed in the remainder of fiscal 2017 and into Q1 fiscal 2018. First ore is expected to be mined from Lynx open pit at the end of fiscal 2017 but its tonnage contribution is expected to be negligible.
In addition to the base case noted above, in the first half of fiscal 2017 the Ekati Diamond Mine processed inferred mineral resources from the Misery South & Southwest kimberlite pipes that were made available as the Misery reserves were accessed (the operating case). When this additional resource material from the Misery South & Southwest pipes is included, the production target for fiscal 2017 foresees total Ekati Diamond Mine production of approximately 5.3 million carats from the mining and processing of approximately 2.9 million tonnes of mineral reserves and resources. No further processing of material from the Misery South & Southwest pipes is planned for fiscal 2017. The Company cautions that inferred mineral resources are considered too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves. COR are not planned to be processed in fiscal 2017.
The foregoing scientific and technical information for the Ekati Diamond Mine was prepared and verified by the Company, the operator of the Ekati Diamond Mine, under the supervision of Peter Ravenscroft, FAuslMM, of Burgundy Mining Advisors Ltd., an independent mining consultancy. Mr. Ravenscroft is a Qualified Person within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESThe planned capital expenditures excluding capitalized depreciation at Ekati Diamond Mine for fiscal 2017 (on a 100% basis) are expected to be approximately $259 million at an estimated average Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of 1.33. Capital expenditures include development projects, sustaining capital and capitalized evaluation activities. Expectations reflect changes in the mine plan, cost savings measures implemented as a result of the Ekati process plant fire, and lower costs for the scope of work executed YTD Q3 fiscal 2017. Capital expenditure in fiscal 2017 includes the costs associated with the pre-stripping of waste at the Misery Main and Lynx open pits prior to commercial production. Capital expenditure in the table below also includes mobilization and initial construction for the Jay and Sable Projects. A fine dense media separation (DMS) unit is also planned to be commissioned in the process plant in late fiscal 2017 in order to improve small diamond recovery. The table below sets out the currently planned capital expenditure by project for fiscal 2017 at the Ekati Diamond Mine (100%).
(expressed in millions of United States dollars)
(i) Calculated excluding capitalized depreciation and excluding adjustments for pre-production revenue.(ii) Calculated at an estimated average Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of 1.33.(iii) Misery Main achieved commercial production on May 1, 2016. Remaining planned expenditure in fiscal 2017 relates to infrastructure.(iv) Represents excess waste stripping in open pits that have achieved commercial production. Costs are capitalized as deferred stripping assets and amortized on a unit-of-production basis as the associated material is processed.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2017, capital expenditure primarily included the completion of the Sable all-season access road, construction of roads and pads at the Sable Project site, commissioning of the Jay crusher, and waste stripping at Misery Main and Pigeon open pits. Misery Main commenced commercial production on May 1, 2016, earlier than planned, with remaining planned expenditure in fiscal 2017 relating to infrastructure.
PRICINGBased on the average prices per carat achieved by the Company in the November 2016 sale, the Company has modelled the approximate rough diamond price per carat for the Ekati kimberlite process plant feed types below. The pricing below is modelled to reflect the current recovery profile of the Ekati process plant using diamond samples for each ore source, marked to market to reflect the average realized price from the November 2016 sale. Prices have decreased by an average of 5% over Q2 fiscal 2017 reflecting a seasonal weakness in the market for lower priced rough diamonds. In addition, the demonetization of the Indian rupee following the third quarter is expected to delay a return to normal trading activity in these goods.
COST OF SALES, CASH COST OF PRODUCTION AND GROSS MARGINBased on current sales expectations for the Ekati Diamond Mine segment for fiscal 2017, the Company expects fiscal 2017 cost of sales to be approximately $352 million (including depreciation and amortization of approximately $130 million). Based on the current mine plan for the Ekati Diamond Mine for fiscal 2017, the cash cost of production is expected to be approximately $223 million at an estimated average Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of 1.33.
Expectations for sales and cost of sales have been reduced in the fourth quarter to reflect the recent demonetization of the Indian rupee. The resulting disruption to trading activity is expected to continue to impact demand for lower priced rough diamonds into the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Available for sale inventory at the end of fiscal 2017 is expected to include a high proportion of lower average value goods that will be carried over for sale in the first half of fiscal 2018. Expectations also reflect the stockpiling of higher value Misery Main and Koala ore, which will be prioritized for the remainder of fiscal 2017 and into Q1 fiscal 2018. Cash cost of production does not include $45 million of mine standby costs incurred during June through September 2016 as a result of the process plant fire. A majority of Ekati Diamond Mine operating costs are incurred in Canadian dollars. In fiscal 2017, a one-cent change in the quarterly average Canadian/US dollar exchange rate is expected to result in an estimated $0.5 million movement in cash production costs in that quarter.
Ekati Diamond Mine depreciation is calculated primarily on a straight-line basis over the remaining mine life. Depreciation is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 following the commencement of commercial production of Misery Main as a result of depreciation of the related capitalized stripping asset. Depreciation has begun to be realized in cost of sales in the second half of fiscal 2017 as Misery Main carats mined during the commercial production period are processed and sold. This increase will be partially offset by a decrease in depreciation resulting from the extension of the mine life to 2034 following the completion of the Jay Project Feasibility Study and a decision to proceed with construction of the Jay Project. As a result, non-cash depreciation per year for certain existing assets has been significantly reduced. The net increase in depreciation in fiscal 2017 has been incorporated into the Company’s cost of sales expectations.
Gross margin is expected to improve in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year as higher value Misery Main and Koala ore is processed and sold following the recommissioning of the process plant in late September 2016. The Company expects gross margin as a percentage of sales to fluctuate depending on, among other things, production volumes, product mix, diamond prices and cost of production.
DIAVIK DIAMOND MINE (40% SHARE)(expressed in millions of United States dollars, except per share, per tonne or per carat amounts and where otherwise noted)(unaudited)
(i) Figures have been restated as a result of retrospective application of a voluntary change in accounting policy related to asset retirement obligations (“ARO”). For further details, refer to note 3 of the condensed consolidated interim financial statements for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2016 and the consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2016.(ii) The terms “cash cost of production,” “cash cost per tonne processed,” “non-cash cost per tonne processed,” “cash cost per carat,” “Adjusted EBITDA” and “Adjusted EBITDA margin” do not have standardized meanings according to IFRS. See “Non-IFRS Measures” for additional information.
Three Months Ended October 31, 2016, Compared to Three Months Ended October 31, 2015DIAVIK SALESDuring the third quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company sold approximately 0.7 million carats (Q3 fiscal 2016 – 0.3 million carats) from the Diavik Diamond Mine for a total of $47.9 million (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $56.9 million). The decrease in average price per carat sold and increase in number of carats sold is primarily due to a decision in the prior year to hold back lower-than-average priced inventory due to market conditions.
DIAVIK COST OF SALES AND GROSS MARGINCost of sales in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 included $11.6 million of depreciation and amortization expense (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $14.3 million). The Diavik segment generated a gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA margin of 33.2% and 56%, respectively (Q3 fiscal 2016 – 33.8% and 58%).
A substantial portion of cost of sales is mine operating costs incurred at the Diavik Diamond Mine. During the third quarter of fiscal 2017, the Diavik cash cost of production was $27.6 million (Q3 fiscal 2016 – $27.8 million). The cash cost of production has remained consistent and mainly comprises costs that are denominated in Canadian dollars. The term “cash cost of production” does not have a standardized meaning according to IFRS. See “Non-IFRS Measures” for additional information. Cost of sales also includes sorting costs, which represent the Company’s cost of handling and sorting product in preparation for sales to third parties, and depreciation and amortization, the majority of which is recorded using the unit-of-production method over estimated proven and probable reserves.
At October 31, 2016, the Company had 0.9 million carats of Diavik Diamond Mine–produced rough diamond inventory available for sale with an estimated market value of approximately $87 million (July 31, 2016 – 0.8 million carats and $53 million, respectively). The Company did not have any inventory classified as work in progress (July 31, 2016 – 0.1 million carats). Inventory classified as available for sale represents carats that have completed the sorting and valuation process. Carats still undergoing sorting and valuation are classified as work-in-progress inventory.
(expressed in millions of United States dollars)
(i) Does not include royalties, which are recorded directly to cost of sales.
SEGMENTED PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXESSegmented profit before income taxes during the quarter decreased by $5.7 million from $17.5 million in Q3 fiscal 2016 to $11.8 million in Q3 fiscal 2017. The decrease was primarily driven by decreased gross margin offset by a foreign exchange gain of $0.7 million. Refer to the “Diavik Sales” and “Diavik Cost of Sales and Gross Margin” sections above for a detailed explanation.
Nine Months Ended October 31, 2016, Compared to Nine Months Ended October 31, 2015DIAVIK SALESSales during the YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 period have increased by $8.5 million compared to YTD Q3 fiscal 2016, primarily due to some improvement over a weakened diamond market in the prior year. Carats sold increased by 92% and price per carat decreased by 46% compared to YTD Q3 fiscal 2016, primarily due to a decision in the prior year to hold back lower-than-average priced inventory due to market conditions.
DIAVIK COST OF SALES AND GROSS MARGINCost of sales during the YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 period included $52.8 million of depreciation and amortization (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – $49.9 million). The Diavik segment generated a gross margin and EBITDA margin of 26.6% and 52%, respectively (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – 25.7% and 50%). The gross margin is anticipated to fluctuate between quarters, resulting from variations in the specific mix of product produced and sold during each quarter and variation in rough diamond prices.
A substantial portion of consolidated cost of sales is mine operating costs incurred at the Diavik Diamond Mine. During the YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 period, the Diavik cash cost of production was $88.0 million (YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 – $90.7 million). The reduction in cash cost of production is partially due to operational improvements at the mine and the weakening of the Canadian dollar. The term cash cost of production does not have a standardized meaning according to IFRS. See “Non-IFRS Measures” for additional information. Cost of sales also includes sorting costs, which comprise the Company’s cost of handling and sorting product in preparation for sales to third parties, and depreciation and amortization, the majority of which is recorded using the unit-of-production method over estimated proven and probable reserves.
At October 31, 2016, the Company had 0.9 million carats of Diavik Diamond Mine–produced rough diamond inventory available for sale with an estimated market value of approximately $87 million (January 31, 2016 – 1.0 million carats and $40 million, respectively). The Company did not have any inventory classified as work in progress (January 31, 2016 – 0.2 million carats). Inventory classified as available for sale represents carats that have completed the sorting and valuation process. Carats still undergoing sorting and valuation are classified as work-in-progress inventory.
(expressed in millions of United States dollars)
(i) Does not include royalties, which are recorded directly to cost of sales.
SEGMENTED PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXESSegmented profit before income taxes during the nine months ended October 31, 2016 increased by $4.5 million from $42.0 million in YTD Q3 fiscal 2016 to $46.5 million in YTD Q3 fiscal 2017. The increase was primarily driven by increased sales during the first half of fiscal year 2017 and foreign exchange gains. Refer to the “Diavik Sales” section above for a detailed explanation.
Operational UpdateDuring Q3 calendar 2016, the Diavik Diamond Mine produced (on a 100% basis) 1.5 million carats from 0.6 million tonnes of ore processed (Q3 calendar 2015 – 1.3 million carats and 0.5 million tonnes, respectively). Total production includes COR, which is not included in the Company’s reserve and resource statements and is therefore incremental to production.
Processing volumes in Q3 calendar 2016 were 22% higher than in the same quarter of the prior year primarily due to higher ore availability, particularly from A-418 pipe which experienced poor ground conditions in the third quarter of calendar 2015. Diamonds recovered in the third quarter of calendar 2016 were 22% higher than in the same quarter of the prior year reflecting higher processing volumes. Recovered grades were also higher than in the same quarter of the prior year, but below plan in the quarter as a result of increased underground dilution as a result of granite sloughing from the walls of the open pit.
The charts below show the Company’s 40% share of Diavik Diamond Mine carat production, ore processed and recovered grade for the eight most recent calendar quarters.
DOMINION DIAMOND DIAVIK LIMITED PARTNERSHIP’S 40% SHARE OF DIAVIK DIAMOND MINE PRODUCTION – CARATS(reported on a one-month lag)
Please see associated chart titled "DOMINION DIAMOND DIAVIK LIMITED PARTNERSHIP’S 40% SHARE OF DIAVIK DIAMOND MINE PRODUCTION – CARATS (reported on a one-month lag)"
DOMINION DIAMOND DIAVIK LIMITED PARTNERSHIP’S 40% SHARE OF DIAVIK DIAMOND MINE PRODUCTION – ORE PROCESSED AND RECOVERED GRADE(reported on a one-month lag)
Please see associated chart titled "DOMINION DIAMOND DIAVIK LIMITED PARTNERSHIP’S 40% SHARE OF DIAVIK DIAMOND MINE PRODUCTION – ORE PROCESSED AND RECOVERED GRADE (reported on a one-month lag)"
Diavik Operations OutlookPRODUCTIONThe mine plan for calendar 2016 foresees Diavik Diamond Mine production (on a 100% basis) of approximately 6.9 million carats from the mining and processing of approximately 2.2 million tonnes of ore. Mining activities will be exclusively underground. The mine plan has been updated to incorporate a change in expected grade as a result of increased underground dilution experienced as a result of granite sloughing from the walls of the open pit.
The aforementioned mine plan for the Diavik Diamond Mine was prepared and verified by DDMI, operator of the Diavik Diamond Mine, under the supervision of Calvin Yip, P.Eng., Principal Advisor, Strategic Planning of DDMI, who is a Qualified Person within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESThe development of the A-21 pipe continues to progress according to plan. During Q3 calendar 2016, the closure of the dike was completed before the end of the open water season. The Company currently expects DDDLP’s 40% share of the planned capital expenditures for the Diavik Diamond Mine in fiscal 2017 to be approximately $60 million at an estimated average Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of 1.33. The table below sets out DDDLP’s 40% share of capital expenditures incurred by the Company during YTD fiscal 2017 and the planned capital expenditures for full year fiscal 2017:
(expressed in millions of United States dollars)
(i) Calculated at an estimated average Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of 1.33.(ii) Sustaining includes underground mine development.
PRICINGBased on the average prices per carat achieved by the Company in the latest sale, held in November 2016, the Company has modelled the approximate rough diamond price per carat for each of the Diavik kimberlite process plant feed types in the table that follows. Prices have decreased by an average of 5% over Q2 fiscal 2017 reflecting a seasonal weakness in the market for lower priced rough diamonds. In addition, the demonetization of the Indian rupee following the third quarter is expected to delay a return to normal trading activity in these goods.
COST OF SALES, CASH COST OF PRODUCTION AND GROSS MARGINBased on current sales expectations for the Diavik Diamond Mine segment for fiscal 2017, the Company expects cost of sales to be approximately $185 million (including depreciation and amortization of approximately $68 million). Based on the current mine plan for the Diavik Diamond Mine for calendar 2016, the Company’s 40% share of the cash cost of production at the Diavik Diamond Mine is expected to be approximately $113 million at an estimated average Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of 1.33.
Expectations for sales and cost of sales have been reduced in the fourth quarter to reflect the recent demonetization of the Indian rupee. The resulting disruption to trading activity is expected to continue to impact demand for lower priced rough diamonds into the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Available for sale inventory at the end of fiscal 2017 is expected to include a high proportion of lower average value goods that will be carried over for sale in the first half of fiscal 2018.
The Company expects gross margin as a percentage of sales to fluctuate depending on, among other things, production volumes, diamond prices and cost of production. Gross margin as a percentage of sales in fiscal 2017 is expected to be slightly higher than that achieved in fiscal 2016, as production volumes are expected to increase year over year.
CORPORATE SEGMENT(expressed in millions of United States dollars)
Three Months Ended October 31, 2016, Compared to Three Months Ended October 31, 2015CORPORATE SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSESSG&A expenses for the Corporate segment during the quarter increased by $0.9 million over Q3 fiscal 2016 primarily due to an increase in professional fees and office related expenses.
GAIN ON SALE OF BUILDINGIn August 2016, the Company entered into a binding agreement to sell its downtown Toronto office building for CDN $84.8 million. The transaction closed on September 8, 2016 and proceeds of $65.1 million were received following closing adjustments. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain on sale of $44.8 million ($0.46 per share after tax).
Nine Months Ended October 31, 2016, Compared to Nine Months Ended October 31, 2015CORPORATE SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSESSG&A expenses for the Corporate segment during the YTD Q3 fiscal 2017 period decreased by $4.3 million over the comparable period in fiscal 2016 primarily due to a charge in the prior year incurred in connection with the departure of the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer.
GAIN ON SALE OF BUILDINGIn August 2016, the Company entered into a binding agreement to sell its downtown Toronto office building for CDN $84.8 million. The transaction closed on September 8, 2016 and proceeds of $65.1 million were received following closing adjustments. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain on sale of $44.8 million ($0.46 per share after tax).
Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe following chart shows the Company’s working capital balances for the eight most recent quarters, as well as the working capital ratios for the same periods. Working capital is calculated as total current assets less total current liabilities, and working capital ratio is calculated as total current assets divided by total current liabilities.
WORKING CAPITAL AND WORKING CAPITAL RATIO(i)Please see associated chart titled "WORKING CAPITAL AND WORKING CAPITAL RATIO"
CASH FLOW MOVEMENT(expressed in millions of United States dollars)(unaudited)
Working CapitalAs at October 31, 2016, the Company had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $198.0 million and restricted cash of $63.8 million, compared to $320.0 million and $63.3 million, respectively, as at January 31, 2016. The restricted cash is used to support letters of credit to the Government of the Northwest Territories (“GNWT”) in the amount of CDN $25 million to secure the reclamation obligations for the Ekati Diamond Mine and CDN $60 million to secure reclamation obligations at the Diavik Diamond Mine.
During Q3 fiscal 2017, the Company reported cash flow provided from operations of $17.4 million, compared to cash flow provided from operations of $60.9 million in Q3 fiscal 2016.
Working capital decreased to $438.2 million at October 31, 2016 from $578.5 million at January 31, 2016. During Q3 fiscal 2017, the Company’s non-cash operating working capital fluctuations were as follows: accounts receivable increased by $1.3 million, other current assets decreased by $3.2 million, inventory and supplies increased by $3.5 million and trade and other payables decreased by $12.6 million. The net increase in inventory and supplies included a $54.7 million increase in stockpile ore primarily as a result of continuing mining at Ekati during the process plant shutdown in fiscal 2017. This increase was partially offset by decreases in supplies and rough diamond inventories.
The June 23, 2016 process plant fire at the Ekati Diamond Mine resulted in a suspension of processing and the plant resuming operations at full capacity on September 21, 2016. A $6.7 million estimated insurance recovery for property damage has been recorded in mine standby costs in Q3 fiscal 2017. Approximately $12.7 million has been incurred in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2017 relating to repairs as a result of the fire and has been recorded in mine standby costs. The Company has filed an interim insurance claim for property damage of CDN $2.5 million in November 2016 and expects to receive these proceeds in Q4 fiscal 2017. The Company holds business interruption insurance covering losses as a result of the fire, but due to the complex nature of this claim and the relatively recent restart of the plant, amounts receivable under the business interruption claim cannot be determined at this time.
The Company’s liquidity requirements fluctuate year over year and quarter over quarter depending on, among other factors, the seasonality of production at the Company’s mineral properties; the seasonality of mine operating expenses; capital expenditure programs; the number of rough diamond sales events conducted during the year; and the volume, size and quality distribution of rough diamonds delivered from the Company’s mineral properties and sold by the Company in the year. Given the remote nature of both the Ekati Diamond Mine and Diavik Diamond Mine, operational costs associated with construction of the winter road and delivery of supplies inventory and capital equipment typically result in higher cash expenditure in the first half of each fiscal year.
The Company assesses liquidity and capital resources on a consolidated basis. The Company’s requirements are for cash operating expenses, working capital, contractual debt requirements and capital expenditures. The Company believes that it will generate sufficient liquidity to meet its anticipated requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Financing ActivitiesDuring the third quarter, the Company had a cash outflow from financing activities of $12.7 million, which included repayment of debt of $1.9 million, and contributions from minority partners of $4.3 million.
On April 7, 2015, the Company entered into a $210 million senior secured corporate revolving credit facility with a syndicate of commercial banks. The facility has a four-year term, and it may be extended for an additional period of one year with the consent of the lenders. Proceeds received by the Company under the credit facility are to be used for general corporate purposes. Accommodations under this credit facility may be made to the Company, at the Company’s option, by way of an advance or letter of credit, and the interest payable will vary in accordance with a pri...