FARMINGTON HILLS, Mich.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Bosch has been named a finalist for the 2017 Automotive News PACE (Premier Automotive Suppliers’ Contributions to Excellence) Awards for its innovative Engine Compartment Actuator (ECA) that offers intelligent actuation on demand.
“Creating the ECA technology was a huge win for our team, and being recognized as a finalist for such an influential award is a great compliment,” said Mike Mansuetti, president, Robert Bosch LLC. “The ECA platform is a showpiece for Bosch’s commitment to solving difficult industry challenges, fostering innovation and advancing technological breakthroughs.”
The ECA replaces hydraulic and mechanical power actuators with a product platform that offers intelligent actuation on demand. The technology caught the judges’ eyes with its fast, compact, precise, scalable and highly dynamic brushless direct current (BLDC) motors with very high quality, durability and application-specific functionality across the engine, drivetrain and beyond. BLDC motors offer increased durability and application-specific functionality, which translate to better efficiency and superior performance for a vehicle’s powertrain and driveline, resulting in longer vehicle life.
With the market trending toward electrification, Bosch worked side-by-side with powertrain manufacturers to create a family of scalable power actuators – real and intelligent on-demand solutions. The development of the ECA scalable product family addressed many of the design, quality and durability issues traditional actuation products could not and maximizes synergies across the entire electrified platform.
The Automotive News PACE Awards have celebrated superior innovation, technological advancement and business performance among automotive suppliers for more than 21 years. First introduced to the industry in 1995, this prestigious award is recognized globally as a benchmark for innovation.
Bosch has been the recipient of several Automotive News PACE Awards, including the 2016 award for its Linear Force Solenoid (LFS) technology, the 2014 award for its laser-drilling technology for spray enhancements in gasoline direct injection, and back-to-back awards in 2010 and 2011 for its innovative collaboration with Bombardier Recreational Products Inc. and its P2 Parallel Full Hybrid System, respectively. Bosch also was an Automotive News PACE Award finalist in 2014 for its open source based infotainment system solution, in 2011 for its windshield wiper direct drive system and in 2010 for both its Long-Range Radar and Vehicle Stability System.
About Bosch
Having established a regional presence in 1906 in North America, the Bosch Group employs some 28,700 associates in more than 100 locations, as of April 1, 2015. In 2014, Bosch generated consolidated sales of $11.3 billion in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. For more information, visit www.boschusa.com, www.bosch.com.mx and www.bosch.ca.
The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology and services. It employs roughly 375,000 associates worldwide (as of December 31, 2015). According to preliminary figures, the company generated sales of more than $77 billion (70 billion euros) in 2015. Its operations are divided into four business sectors: Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology. The Bosch Group comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and its roughly 440 subsidiaries and regional companies in some 60 countries. If its sales and service partners are included, then Bosch is represented in roughly 150 countries. This worldwide development, manufacturing, and sales network is the foundation for further growth. In 2015, Bosch applied for some 5,400 patents worldwide. The Bosch Group’s strategic objective is to deliver innovations for a connected life. Bosch improves quality of life worldwide with products and services that are innovative and spark enthusiasm. In short, Bosch creates technology that is “Invented for life.”
Additional information is available online at www.bosch.com, www.bosch-press.com and twitter.com/BoschPresse.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006442/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}