SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Azul Systems (Azul), the award-winning leader in Java runtime solutions, today announced that Microsoft’s Azure team has deployed Zulu® Enterprise, Azul’s 100 percent open source Java platform based on OpenJDK, as the Java runtime for cloud services delivery applications, including building and supporting Windows-based internal configuration services and external data services using Azul’s proven, open source Java platform.
Cloud services delivery comprises an important set of use cases, as Microsoft uses Azure infrastructure for other cloud-based services, from Azure SQL Database and Azure DocumentDB to Power BI, Microsoft Intune and more.
Azul Systems and Microsoft have been working together since 2013 on Java-based initiatives to bring open source Java to the Azure community and to Microsoft services running in the cloud. This work is visible across Microsoft’s cloud portfolio, including leveraging OpenJDK for Azure SDKs and Zulu support in Microsoft’s 3rd party tooling for Java developers. Through this collaboration, Java developers globally have been able to access a high-quality foundation for their Java implementations safe in the knowledge that their mission-critical apps will deploy and run smoothly on the Azure cloud platform.
Scott Sellers, president and CEO of Azul Systems said, “Every day, the momentum behind OpenJDK and Zulu increases, as shown by the Microsoft Azure team’s adoption of Zulu for its worldwide IT services. Zulu Enterprise provides customers with full Java SE compliance, long lifecycle support, access to updates and security patches, and backed by the industry’s best 24x7x365 support, in addition to all the benefits of an open source development and runtime platform for essential Java-based services.”
“Microsoft and Azul Systems are driven by a common goal to make the world of mixed IT environments work better together for customers,” said Girish Bablani, corporate vice president, Azure Compute, Microsoft Corp. “By using Azul’s open source Java environment on Microsoft Azure, we are assured of a high-quality foundation for Java implementations while leveraging the latest advancements in OpenJDK.”
About Zulu Enterprise
Zulu Enterprise is Azul’s certified build of OpenJDK and is compliant with the Java SE 8, 7, and 6 standards. Zulu and Zulu Enterprise subscriptions are available on the Microsoft Azure Marketplace as well as directly from Azul Systems and Azul resellers.
About Azul Systems@azulsystems
Azul Systems, the industry’s only company exclusively focused on Java and the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), builds fully supported, certified standards-compliant Java runtime solutions that help enable the real time business. Zing is a JVM designed for enterprise Java applications and workloads that require any combination of low latency, high transaction rates, large working memory, and/or consistent response times. Zulu is Azul’s certified, freely available open source build of OpenJDK with a variety of flexible support options, available in configurations for the enterprise as well as custom and embedded systems. For additional information, visit www.azul.com.
Azul Systems, the Azul Systems logo, Zulu, Zing and ReadyNow! are registered trademarks. Java and OpenJDK are trademarks of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliated companies in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective holders.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005925/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}