LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
OWNZONES Media Network Inc., a leading global media platform with proprietary over-the-top technology and content-distribution services, launched their newest celebrity original series, ‘Hollywood DIY with How2Girl Courtney Sixx’ today with a VIP celebration at the SLS Beverly Hills Hotel. [PHOTOS]
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005643/en/ 
Tinseltown’s go-to DIY expert, Courtney Sixx draws creative inspiration from her years in the spotlight and as a guest to some of the most exclusive events in town. Hollywood DIY takes viewers inside the hottest parties and shows how to re-create their signature looks on a real-life budget.
Guests at the Hollywood DIY launch event included Real Housewives’ Gretchen Rossi, comedian Heather McDonald and designer Nikki Lund, who sipped Courtney’s signature Cotton Candy martinis and designed their own custom DIY picture frames, both of which represent projects featured on the show.
“I am beyond excited about my new show on OWNZONES!” says Sixx. “I’m lucky enough to attend all sorts of beautifully elaborate Hollywood happenings, and finding creative, inexpensive ways to replicate these events has been a personal passion of mine for a long time. Thanks to OWNZONES, I can now share this passion with the world in a whole new way!”
“Courtney has made a great name for herself as Hollywood’s How2Girl,” says Dan Goman, Founder and CEO of OWNZONES Media Network. “Her skills and attitude are a perfect fit for OWNZONES. We are honored to use our advanced content distribution platform to help her teach the whole world how to DIY like a Hollywood pro.”
Sixx is among a select group of celebrities developing a strong presence within the quickly expanding Over-the-top (OTT) Video On Demand media space. By combining her DIY talents with OWNZONES’ global distribution network and customizable subscription model, Hollywood’s How2Girl is providing DIY enthusiasts with an entirely new way to discover cool projects, while getting an inside look at Sixx’s fast paced, celeb-filled world.
The first season of ‘Hollywood DIY With How2Girl Courtney Sixx’ is now available for $.99 and can be found online at OWNZONES.com/Courtney or on the OWNZONES app, which is free to download on Android and iOS mobile devices.
About OWNZONES
OWNZONES Media Network is a global provider of technology and media solutions for the motion picture, television and digital content creation industries. The company’s proprietary technology platform and integrated marketing and programming services offer content owners a single-source, end-to-end solution for delivering world class viewing experiences across all OTT platforms including web, mobile apps and connected devices. Headquartered in Los Angeles with offices in Arizona and Romania, OWNZONES network partners and clients include Comcast, Magnolia Pictures, British Pathe, DirecTV, Scripps, TimeWarner, Amazon, Hulu, Verizon, T-Mobile Bing-On and SonyVue, among others. OWNZONES offers direct-to-consumer streaming video in the form of OWNZONES.com, a channel-customizable VOD platform.
More information can be found at OWNZONESMedia.com.
About COURTNEY SIXX
A self-made entrepreneur and lifestyle enthusiast, Courtney turned her passion for DIY into a burgeoning lifestyle brand, hosting her own iHeartRadio show How2Girl and becoming Kylie Jenner’s go-to DIY girl for her popular app. As a former runway model Courtney draws inspiration from the catwalk and red carpet – blending the latest fashion trends into her at-home projects. Featuring everything from home décor, food and entertaining, to health and beauty tips, her website HOW2GIRL.COM is the ultimate lifestyle resource for the girl on a budget who is willing to invest a little time and imagination to achieve luxury in their own lives.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005643/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005643/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}