NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Please replace the release dated December 6, 2016, with the following corrected version due to multiple revisions.
The corrected release reads:
SNOWDEN LANE PARTNERS’ HARBOR WEALTH ADVISORY GROUP TAKES LARGER SPACE IN HISTORIC CAMDEN YARDS TO ACCOMMODATE GROWTH
Snowden Lane Partners, an independent, advisor-owned, wealth advisory firm dedicated to providing client-focused advice in a values-driven culture, today announced that the firm’s Baltimore, MD-based Harbor Wealth Advisory Group has relocated to larger office space to accommodate current and projected growth.
The new space is located at the same 323 W. Camden Street address as the group’s former office, neighboring historic Oriole Park at Camden Yards.
“Relocating, even within the same footprint, is exciting just two years after moving into this building,” said Phil Lazzari, Senior Partner and Managing Director. “Over the past year, it became increasingly clear that the square footage of our office couldn’t keep pace with our current and anticipated growth. We’re delighted to be here and look forward to many more years at 323 West Camden.”
The Harbor Wealth Advisory Group, which serves private clients, small businesses, non-profits, and corporate executives, is comprised of Senior Partners and Managing Directors Eric Watson, Mark Stevens and Phil Lazzari, who collectively have close to 100 years of experience gained at the industry’s top wealth management firms. In addition, it has strong capabilities in managing risk, advising on concentrated equity positions, and providing retirement plan services, as well as in portfolio construction and personalized investment solutions.
Snowden Lane is rapidly building a national brand. Its footprint includes seven offices nationally, including both coasts, with offices in Pasadena and San Diego (serving international clients), as well as its New York City headquarters; New Haven, CT; Pittsburgh, PA; and Baltimore and Bethesda, MD. In June, the Financial Times named Snowden Lane to its elite FT 300 list for the second straight year, recognizing it as one of the top independent RIA firms in the U.S.
About Snowden Lane Partners
Snowden Lane is a nationally branded, open-architecture, hybrid registered investment advisor and broker-dealer that provides wealth advisory services to high net worth individuals, families, and institutional clients.
Snowden Lane is led by an experienced team of industry executives, including Lyle LaMothe, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Rob Mooney, Managing Partner and CEO, and Greg Franks, Managing Partner and President, who are dedicated to building a client-focused, nationally branded, boutique wealth advisory partnership.
Snowden Lane is headquartered in New York City and operates an SEC registered investment adviser and affiliated broker-dealer. Snowden Lane provides a multi-custodian, multi-currency platform, with aggregated performance reporting and leading analytical tools for clients and advisors. It further provides full operational, finance, compliance, human resources and financial advisor transition support to its financial advisors.
For more information about Snowden Lane, please visit www.snowdenlane.com.
References to “Snowden Lane” and “Snowden Lane Partners” are references to Snowden Capital Advisors LLC, an investment adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and its affiliated entities.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006039/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}