CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AKHAN Semiconductor is pleased to announce that it will be attending and speaking at the U.S. Council on Competitiveness’ 2016 National Competitiveness Forum on December 9, 2016 in Washington, D.C.
The U.S. Council on Competitiveness’ National Competitiveness Forum is the nation’s premier C-Suite invitation only event providing a critical platform for several game-changing issues vital for the United States to maintain its competitive edge. This daylong event assembles the nation’s top public and private sector leaders to assess the state of the nation’s competitiveness and explore pressing and emerging priorities.
AKHAN Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Adam Khan will give a short presentation on AKHAN’s Miraj Diamond™ platform, which is leading growth in the advanced materials market with innovative diamond-based solutions for automotive, aerospace, military/defense, consumer electronics, and telecommunications.
“We are ecstatic to attend to speak at this prestigious forum. Having conducted the entirety of the initial research, development, product planning, and now commercial production launch domestically, we are proud to showcase our technology as an example of American innovation and competitiveness” said Khan. “With the addition of commercial lens glass to the company’s flagship Miraj Diamond™ Glass products, we are well positioned to address the entirety of the glass on present and future mobile, wearable, and VR systems, including camera systems. Sapphire, the 2nd hardest material behind diamond, has seen adoption in the marketplace with cost and performance second to Miraj Diamond™ Glass, which is 6x stronger and 10x harder than the leading consumer glass” added AKHAN Chief Operating Officer, Carl Shurboff, also in attendance at the forum.
"We are so happy to have AKHAN Semiconductor as a member of the U.S. Council on Competitiveness. Adam Khan and his company represent a new generation of leaders who are becoming engaged in policy," said Deborah L. Wince-Smith, president and CEO of the U.S. Council on Competitiveness. "Their voices add much-needed perspective to the dialogue, raising awareness for important issues in technology. We look forward to continuing our strong relationship with AKHAN and reaching more folks in the technology sector."
AKHAN Semiconductor is a technology company specializing in the fabrication and application of electronics-grade diamonds as functional semiconductors.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005089/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}