NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed Inter-American Development Bank's (IaDB) Long-Term Foreign Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'AAA' with a Stable Outlook. In addition, Fitch has affirmed IaDB's senior unsecured notes and senior unsecured term loan at 'AAA' and Short-Term Foreign Currency IDR at 'F1+'.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
IaDB's ratings reflect its achievement of the maximum possible assessment in both intrinsic and support factors. The bank's ratio of equity to assets net of derivative instruments was 23.5% at June 2016, in line with 'AAA' rated peers. IaDB's capitalization benefits from a conservative capital adequacy policy and a USD1.70 billion increase in paid-in capital since 2012. Fitch expects solvency levels to improve moderately in the near term, subsequent to a 2016 resolution to transfer the assets and liabilities of the Fund for Special Operations (FSO) to the IaDB's ordinary capital, resulting in an approximate equity increase of USD5.0 billion.
Lending has continued to decelerate in 2016, with loan approvals of USD2.47 billion for the six months ending June 2016 (compared to USD2.95 billion as of June 2015), due to slower growth and lower demand in key member countries. Sovereign-guaranteed loans remained the vast majority of total operations (92.1% of total exposure at June 2016) and will likely increase, as the IaDB reduces non-sovereign guaranteed loan transactions and its existing private sector portfolio amortizes.
As of January 2016, IaDB initiated the transfer of operational and administrative functions related to private sector activities to a separate international organization, the Inter-American Investment Corp (IIC; 'AAA'/Outlook Stable). Outstanding private sector loans on IaDB's balance sheet will run down over a period of time. However, IIC is responsible for new private sector originations and monitoring of the outstanding private sector portfolio. In return, IIC will receive capital contributions drawn on IaDB's net income beginning in 2018 for an amount not to exceed $725 million over seven years. In Fitch's view, the operation will have no impact on IaDB's risk profile.
The average rating of IaDB's loan portfolio remains at 'BB', notwithstanding the downgrade of its largest borrower, Brazil (17.1% of gross loans) to 'BB' in May 2016. All other factors remaining equal, a further Brazilian downgrade by one notch would leave IaDB's average portfolio rating unchanged. Non-performing loans (0.69% of gross loans at June 2016 compared to 0.59% at December 2015) are comprised primarily of five private sector projects. Specific and general allowances cover non-performing loans by 108.2%. Loan concentration remains high, even by industry standards, and is IaDB's main rating weakness. The largest five exposures (Brazil, Mexico, Argentina Colombia and Ecuador) represented 63.5% of loans at June 2016.
The bank recently tightened its liquidity policy and strengthened its liquidity buffers. At December 2015, treasury assets covered 205.5% of short-term liabilities (189.7% at year-end 2014), and liquid assets accounted for 31.6% of total assets at June 2016 (29.7% at June 2015) in the mid-range of peers.
Support from IaDB's 48 government shareholders achieves Fitch's maximum possible assessment. The strength of shareholder support is evidenced by the timely disbursement of paid-in capital as well as a USD64.3 billion increase in callable capital since 2012. As of June 2016, callable capital provided by 'AAA' rated shareholders fully covered the IaDB's outstanding debt stock (net of highly rated treasury assets). Due to Argentina's upgrade in May 2016, the weighted average rating of IaDB's key shareholders improved to 'A' at June 2016 from 'A-'.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
IaDB has received the maximum assessment for intrinsic credit quality and support. Therefore, a downgrade of IaDB's ratings would require a decline in the assessment of both intrinsic and support factors. The triggers that could collectively result in a downgrade of IaDB's ratings are the following:
- A prolonged and significant decline in capitalisation resulting from unexpected losses or higher than expected asset growth; and
- Less than full coverage of IaDB's net debt by callable capital from 'AAA' rated shareholders, due either to the downgrade of such shareholders or a rapid increase in IaDB's debt.
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
Fitch assumes that IaDB will continue maintaining a cautious prudential framework on leverage, liquidity and credit risk.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Supranationals Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jul 2016)https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/881783
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Formhttps://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1015677
Solicitation Statushttps://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1015677
Endorsement Policyhttps://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006256/en/