LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Technavio analysts forecast the global industrial motherboards market to grow at a CAGR of over 6% during the forecast period, according to their latest report.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005474/en/ 
The market study covers the present scenario and growth prospects of the global industrial motherboards market for 2017-2021. The report lists process industries and discrete industries as the two main end-user segments. It also examines the key emerging trends and their influence on the current as well as future markets.
According to Bharath Kanniappan, a lead analyst at Technavio for automation research, “Increased capital investments in industries such as automotive, oil and gas, power, chemical and petrochemical, cement, pulp and paper, and pharmaceuticals will influence the growth of the global industrial motherboard market.”
Request a sample report: http://www.technavio.com/request-a-sample?report=54866
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
Technavio industrial automation analysts highlight the following three factors that are contributing to the growth of the global industrial motherboards market:
Increased adoption of fan-less industrial motherboards
The operation of industrial PCs, PLCs, and DCS involves the transmission of data among various components which generates a lot of heat which damage the industrial motherboard, if the heat energy is not dissipated properly. Traditionally fans were used for the dissipation of excess heat, however fans are prone to mechanical failure which compromises the integrity of the overall system.
Hence, fan-less industrial motherboards with chassis heatsinks are increasingly being adopted. Chassis heatsinks are noiseless as compared to fans and improve the overall ergonomics.
“They allow engineers to exercise more creativity in designing the overall system and decrease the footprint size of the overall industrial motherboard, making them ideal for space constraints areas,” says Bharath.
Rise in adoption of industrial PCs
The global industrial PC market is expected to grow at a CAGR of close to 6%. Industrial PCs, especially panel PCs, are being adopted to increase production and maintain quality. Automation and IIoT are being adopted on a broad scale in various discrete and process industries such as semiconductor and electronics, paper and pulp, as well as food and beverage for real-time data acquisition, analysis, measurement, image processing, material transfer, and control of machine tending operations.
Motherboards are indispensable components of industrial PC systems, and adoption rates have also increased due to maintenance and servicing requirements of industrial PCs. Hence, the steady growth of the industrial PC market is expected to have a positive impact on the growth of the industrial motherboard market during the forecast period.
High investments by EU for industrial automation
In March 2016, the European Commission announced multiple funds to promote indigenous industries and ensure economic growth in Europe. Such developments should improve growth of industries in the EU, which will increase the adoption of process control solutions like industrial PCs and PLCs where industrial motherboards are in much demand.
The EU is promoting the growth of SMEs to safeguard the development of the metal processing and semiconductor industries. The union has increased investments in industrial automation to compete with low-cost labor countries (like Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Vietnam, Cambodia, India, and Indonesia) and prevent outsourcing of manufacturing activities. This is expected to boost the market for industrial motherboards during the forecast period.
Browse Related Reports:
Do you need a report on a market in a specific geographical cluster or country but can’t find what you’re looking for? Don’t worry, Technavio also takes client requests. Please contact enquiry@technavio.com with your requirements and our analysts will be happy to create a customized report just for you.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. The company develops over 2000 pieces of research every year, covering more than 500 technologies across 80 countries. Technavio has about 300 analysts globally who specialize in customized consulting and business research assignments across the latest leading edge technologies.
Technavio analysts employ primary as well as secondary research techniques to ascertain the size and vendor landscape in a range of markets. Analysts obtain information using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches, besides using in-house market modeling tools and proprietary databases. They corroborate this data with the data obtained from various market participants and stakeholders across the value chain, including vendors, service providers, distributors, re-sellers, and end-users.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005474/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005474/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}