SYDNEY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Boyden, a premier global talent advisory and leadership solutions firm, today announced that Signium Australia, formerly known as Crown & Marks, has joined Boyden to establish a major presence in the Australia and New Zealand region. This partnership further strengthens Boyden’s visibility in the Asia Pacific region, while enabling the new team in Australia to access a strong and unified global platform to serve the needs of regional and global clients.
Clients are demanding greater support and expertise in accessing leadership talent to meet their requirements, without consideration of geographic borders, and beyond traditional sectors. Boyden Australia’s new team, led by Managing Partners Allan Marks and Alun Parry, is focused on delivering the highest quality services and solutions to meet the continually expanding objectives of clients regionally and globally.
"Increasingly our clients are looking for support in finding and developing talent in multiple locations, both regionally and globally. This merger of like-minded firms ensures we will provide this support while building even stronger and deeper client relationships on a long-term basis," said Allan Marks. "Our key areas of focus and expertise in this market fit very well into Boyden’s global platform and client focus moving forward." Marks added.
Alun Parry added, “Joining Boyden means we will have access to a firm focused on the highest quality of client delivery and strategic growth for the long-term. This partnership greatly expands Boyden’s and our capabilities across Asia Pacific and globally. We are all very excited to be a part of Boyden’s aggressive growth objectives.”
The Boyden Australia team consists of 15 professionals including two Managing Partners, two Partners, one Principal and an excellent Associate and Administrative team. The depth of this team increases the firm’s strengths in key global practices and functional sectors including Industrial, Education, Consumer, Professional Services, Technology, Financial Services and Board of Directors.
“Our team, led by Allan and Alun, brings extensive expertise and significant regional and global knowledge, which accelerates the expansion of Boyden’s capabilities in Australia and across Asia Pacific," said Trina Gordon, President and CEO of Boyden based in New York. “This expansion is aligned with our ongoing growth strategy that includes Australia as a major global talent and leadership centre, which will strengthen our service offerings to clients around the world.”
About Boyden
Boyden is a premier leadership and talent advisory firm with more than 65 offices in over 40 countries. Our global reach enables us to serve client needs anywhere they conduct business. We connect great companies with great leaders through executive search, interim management and leadership consulting solutions. For further information, visit www.boyden.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006086/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}