DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "LAMEA Content Delivery Network Market (2016-2022)" report to their offering.
Content delivery network system can be termed as a distribution network with large number of servers interconnected and deployed in different data centers. The CDN networks offer real-time content to the users with superior performance and improved quality of service, serving large base on internet users on a daily basis. The content is duplicated and stored in multiple cache servers which can be readily accessed by the users, with a direct impact on the internet services. The Internet and its increasing use over the years has become the prime factor driving the market for CDN networks worldwide. Additionally, the ever growing mobile technology and the use social media have also actively contributed to the market growth. With improved accessibility, storage, and scalability, the market has tremendous opportunities for growth during the forecast period.
Based on the type, the Content Delivery Network market is segmented into Standard/ Non-Video CDN and Video CDN. The market is segmented into Web Performance Optimization, Media Delivery and Cloud Security bases upon the Solution type. Based on Adjacent Services, the market is segmented into Cloud Storage, Analytics & Monitoring, API's, CDN Network Design, Support & Maintenance and Others.
Based on Service Provider Type, the market is segmented into Traditional CDN, Telco CDN, Cloud Service Providers and Others.
Based on Organization Size, the market is segmented into Small & Medium Enterprises and Large Enterprises. The Verticals highlighted in this report include Advertising, Media & Entertainment, Online Gaming, E-Commerce, Education, Government, Healthcare and Others.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Market Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Overview
4. LAMEA Content Delivery Network Market by Type
5. LAMEA Content Delivery Network Market by Solution Type
6. LAMEA Content Delivery Network Market by Adjacent Services
7. LAMEA Content Delivery Network Market by Service Provider Type
8. LAMEA Content Delivery Network Market by Organization Size
9. LAMEA Content Delivery Network Market by Vertical
10. LAMEA Content Delivery Network Market by Country
11. Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/4gs6xt/lamea_content

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005619/en/