TAINAN, Taiwan--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
National Cheng Kung University (NCKU) Office of International Affairs (OIA) sets up Global Competence Center (GCC) to provide more opportunities for local students and international students to get to know one another and broaden their global views.
GCC offers international students the opportunities to take part in the activities at NCKU. The process of participating in those activities enables them to make new friends with the local students, and thus making the international students more familiar to the Taiwanese culture and custom.
GCC also integrates the existing services of OIA, including Global Forum, Student-centered International Forum, Service Learning, Language Exchange, In-campus Volunteer, Host Family Network, Global Internship and many others, hoping to make the resources more effective to the local students and to lead them to recognize and respect different cultures from countries to countries.
Global Forum guides the participants to discuss international issues in English. The forums can be either lectures or experience sharing.
There are approximately 4 forums per semester, and they aim to motivate the students at NCKU to engage in global issues.
Student-centered Forum gives the local students the information of participating in international contests and overseas training programs.
OIA hopes students can cultivate leadership skills and develop self-recognition by experiencing various cultures.
Global Internship Program is highly promoted. NCKU has been collaborating with numerous prestigious universities abroad, aiming to offer the local students short-term exchanges and internships.
NCKU has also been promoting the international student exchange program and inviting a number of foreign scholars to NCKU recently. As a result, the number of foreigners at NCKU has been soaring. OIA hopes that the foreigners and the natives can have better connections through GCC’s efforts.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006585/en/