CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed three classes of GTP Cellular Sites, LLC commercial mortgage pass-through certificates, 2012-2 as follows:
--$106 million 2012-2 class A at 'Asf', Outlook Stable;
--$41 million 2012-2 class B at 'BBB-sf', Outlook Stable;
--$27 million 2012-2 class C at 'BB-sf', Outlook Stable.
Class A of GTP 2012-1 has paid in full.
The affirmations are due to the stable performance of the collateral since issuance. The Stable Outlook reflects the limited prospect for upgrades given the provision to issue additional notes.
As part of its review, Fitch analyzed the financial and site information provided by the master servicer, Midland Loan Services.
The certificates represent beneficial ownership interest in the cellular sites, primary assets of which are 697 wireless communication sites leased to 1,047 cellular tower tenants. As of the November 2016 distribution date, the aggregate principal balance of the notes has been reduced by 38.3% to $174 million from $282 million at issuance.
The series 2012-2 class A notes were interest-only for the first year and have commenced amortization as expected. Series 2012-1 class A paid off in June of 2016 along with a partial release of collateral. Aside from scheduled amortization on series 2012-2 class A, no other principal will be required to be paid prior to the anticipated repayment date of March 2019 for the remaining classes.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Stable Cash Flow and Leverage: As of November 2016, Fitch stressed debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.41x which compares with approximately 1.20x at last review. The debt multiple relative to Fitch's net cash flow (NCF) is 7.49x, which equates to a debt yield of 13.4%.
Leases to Strong Tower Tenants: There are 1,047 wireless tenant leases. Telephony tenants represent 98.9% of the leases on the cellular sites, and 31.3% of this run-rate revenue is from investment-grade tenants. T-Mobile is the largest tenant, representing approximately 30.7% of run-rate revenue.
Additional Notes: The borrower has the ability to issue additional notes in the future that will rank senior to, pari passu with, or subordinate to the rated notes. These may be issued without the benefit of additional collateral, provided the post-issuance DSCR is not less than 1.75x. The possibility of upgrades may be limited due to this provision.
Risk of Technological Obsolescence: The notes have a rated final payment date in 2042, and the long-term tenor of the notes increases the risk that an alternative technology rendering obsolete the current transmission of wireless signals through cellular sites will be developed. Currently, WSPs depend on towers to transmit their signals and continue to invest in this technology.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The Stable Outlook on the series 2012-2 notes reflect the stable performance of the portfolio. Upgrades are limited based on the provision to issue additional notes. Downgrades are unlikely based on continued cash flow growth due to annual rent escalations and automatic renewal clauses resulting in higher debt service coverage ratios since issuance.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10
No third-party due diligence was provided or reviewed in relation to this rating action.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Rating Caps and Limitations in Global Structured Finance Transactions (pub. 16 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882401
Criteria for Rating U.S. Wireless Tower Transactions (pub. 09 Nov 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/889829
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
Related Research
GTP Cellular Sites, LLC Secured Cellular Sites Revenue Notes, Series 2012-1 and 2012-2 - Appendix
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/671751
GTP Cellular Sites, LLC Secured Cellular Sites Revenue Notes, Series 2012-1 and 2012-2 -- Appendix
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/673363
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016240
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016240
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005649/en/