Venezuela’s opposition walked out of Vatican-sponsored talks with the government, accusing the administration of President Nicolas Maduro of reneging on its promises to ease the country’s political crisis.
Coalition chief Jesus “Chuo” Torrealba said the alliance won’t attend the next round of talks scheduled for Tuesday.
“The dialogue shouldn’t exist simply to buy the government time,” Torrealba said in a webcast posted on his twitter account Tuesday. “It shouldn’t be a tool used for making a mockery.”
The initial rounds of talks in October had been promising with the opposition agreeing to call off protests and the government releasing a handful of jailed activists. Since then, the opposition has demanded further concessions, such as the freeing of more activists and the appointment of new electoral authorities. That hasn’t happened, and time is running out for the opposition’s drive to force a referendum to remove Maduro.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Slams Air Force One Cost With Tweet to Cancel Boeing Order
The oil-rich nation has been in the throws of an institutional crisis since the opposition took control of Congress in January and promised sweeping changes to nearly 18 years of socialist rule. Despite dismal poll numbers, Maduro has remained unyielding, using compliant courts to block his opponents’ legislative initiatives and attempts to hold the recall referendum.
The opposition coalition, known as the MUD, accuses Maduro of taking an increasingly authoritarian line to maintain a failed political model, while the beleaguered president insists that the opposition’s efforts are nothing short of a coup d’etat.
More from Bloomberg.com: Putin Shows Off Russia's Embarrassing Aircraft Carrier
Torrealba said his coalition would continue to talk with international mediators and that it may retake its seat at the table if the government fulfills its promises.
For now though, “it would be insincere to sit there as if nothing was happening,” Torrealba said.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Venezuela Opposition Walks Out of Vatican-Sponsored Negotiations on bloomberg.com