BOCA RATON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Sun Capital Partners Foundation, Inc. (“The Foundation”), today announced that it has selected Boca Raton-based charity Boca Helping Hands to receive a $75,000 grant. BHH is a non-profit organization that provides food, medical and financial assistance to meet basic human needs, as well as education, job training and guidance to create self-sufficiency. In 2015, Boca Helping Hands served 55,400 meals from its food center, and has already provided over 45,000 meals so far this year.
“Our local community is extremely fortunate to have Boca Helping Hands as a resource for those in need,” said Marc Leder, Co-CEO of Sun Capital Partners and President of The Foundation. “Especially during the holiday season, we’re proud to support an organization that provides so much assistance in our area.”
Boca Helping Hands first opened as a food center in November 1998, serving nutritious hot lunches three days a week and distributing bags of groceries to families. The Food Center is open six days a week with a “Family Night Dinner” on Thursdays. Meals are also delivered to homebound disabled and elderly individuals. In April 2002, Boca Helping Hands opened a Resource Center with a focus on providing help for Boca Raton residents in crisis situations such as eviction, utility cancellation, and prescription medication assistance. In the last four years, five job training programs have been created, providing the clients of Boca Helping Hands a means out of poverty and a path to self-sufficiency.
Marc J. Leder and Rodger R. Krouse, founders of Sun Capital Partners, started The Foundation with the belief that success brings with it a responsibility to make a difference in local communities. By supporting innovative non-profit organizations, The Foundation aims to fulfill its mission of promoting sustainable and positive change. The Foundation’s Charity Committee carefully evaluates potential charitable partners to ensure the funding the Foundation provides is deployed effectively and has a meaningful impact.
The Foundation serves to enhance Sun Capital’s strong culture of social engagement and giving back. Previous grant recipients include HANDY (“Helping Abused Neglected Disadvantaged Youth”), Women in Distress, Junior Achievement of South Florida, SOS Children’s Villages, and the Rush Philanthropic Arts Foundation.
About Sun Capital Partners Foundation, Inc.
Sun Capital Partners Foundation, Inc. was established in 2007 to unite the Sun Capital family in a purposeful philanthropic effort.
About Sun Capital Partners, Inc.
Sun Capital Partners is a global private equity firm focused on identifying companies’ untapped potential and leveraging its deep operational and financial resources to transform results. Sun Capital is a trusted partner that is recognized for its investment and operational experience, including particular expertise in the consumer products and services, food and beverage, industrial, packaging, chemicals, building products, automotive, restaurant and retail sectors. Since 1995, Sun Capital has invested in more than 330 companies worldwide across a broad range of industries and transaction structures. Sun Capital has offices in Boca Raton, Los Angeles and New York, and affiliates in London, Frankfurt, Stockholm and Shenzhen.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005091/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}