SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Innovium, Inc. a provider of networking silicon solutions for data-centers announced that it received the Start-Up to Watch Award from the Global Semiconductor Alliance (GSA). The award was presented yesterday at the annual GSA Awards Dinner Celebration, the industry's premier event celebrating the achievements of semiconductor companies, in front of an audience of over 1,500 executives. The Start-Up to Watch Award is presented to a semiconductor company that demonstrates the potential to positively change its markets or the semiconductor industry in general through innovative semiconductor technology. The annual award has recognized the world’s most promising fabless semiconductor start-ups for over 15 years, and comes from over 400 GSA members which span 30 countries and account for over 75% of industry revenue.
The GSA Start-Up to Watch Awards Committee, consisting of semiconductor company CEOs, senior executives, venture capitalists, investment bankers and serial entrepreneurs in the industry, chose Innovium as the 2016 winner of the Start-Up to Watch Award, recognizing its excellence in vision, strategy, execution and potential for impact in the semiconductor industry.
“We congratulate Innovium on winning the 2016 GSA Start-Up to Watch Award,” said Jodi Shelton, President of GSA. “This is a testament to Innovium’s exceptional team, vision and the magnitude of market impact with their technology.”
“We are very honored to receive this award from GSA, an organization representing the most respected peers in our industry,” said Rajiv Khemani, Co-founder and CEO of Innovium. “At Innovium, we are laser focused on providing the most innovative data center networking solutions that address the biggest pain points and priorities of our customers. I would like to thank our employees, customers and partners for their contributions and support for our company and products.”
About Innovium
Innovium is a venture-funded company developing disruptive semiconductor based solutions to address the biggest networking challenges facing data centers. Innovium's team members have a highly successful track record in delivering several generations of widely deployed data center products. The company is headquartered in Silicon Valley, California and is backed by leading venture capital firms including Greylock Partners, Walden Riverwood, Capricorn Investment Group, Qualcomm Ventures and S-Cubed Capital. For more information, please visit: http://www.innovium.com
About GSA
The Global Semiconductor Alliance (GSA) mission is to support the global semiconductor industry and its partners by offering a comprehensive view of the industry. This enables members to better anticipate market opportunities and industry trends, preparing them for technology and business shifts. It addresses the challenges within the supply chain including IP, EDA/design, wafer manufacturing, test and packaging to enable industry-wide solutions. Providing a platform for meaningful global collaboration through efficient power networking for global semiconductor leaders and their partners, the Alliance identifies and articulates market opportunities, encourages and supports entrepreneurship, and provides members with comprehensive and unique market intelligence. Members include companies throughout the supply chain representing 30 countries across the globe. www.gsaglobal.org

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005684/en/