LEHI, Utah--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Solutionreach, the leader in patient relationship management (PRM) solutions, today announced the availability of SR Conversations, an integrated texting application. Among other benefits, SR Conversations offers intelligent prioritization of patient mobile conversations—a first-to-market functionality—allowing practices to better nurture their patient relationships and foster loyalty.
Patient expectations on how they should communicate with their providers are changing. According to a study released by the Council of Accountable Physician Practices and the Bipartisan Policy Center, most patients want to communicate with physicians via text and email, but very few providers offer the ability to do so.
“Our provider customers put their patients first—they want to meet their patients where they are,” said Jim Higgins, chief executive officer of Solutionreach. “And now our practices can do more than that. With SR Conversations, each patient can get the unique attention and engagement they need.”
SR Conversations allows patients to text a practice’s landline for non-emergency issues from their mobile device. The feature can also seamlessly integrate with most practice management systems, if desired by practice staff. In addition to intelligent prioritization of patient messages allowing practices to give each patient the attention they need, benefits include:
SR Conversations is available to Solutionreach’s more than 25,000 practice customers. Learn more about Solutionreach and SR Conversations by calling (866) 605-6867 or visiting www.solutionreach.com.
About Solutionreach
Solutionreach is revolutionizing the patient and provider relationship. Through its market-leading patient relationship management platform, Solutionreach supports higher patient satisfaction and loyalty, greater efficiency, and ultimately, stronger healthcare organizations. Solutionreach partners with more than 25,000 provider organizations in numerous specialties. Learn more at www.solutionreach.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005941/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}