DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Aluminum Plates and Sheet Coils Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global aluminum plates and sheet coils market is forecast to grow at a CAGR of 3.52% during the period 2016-2020.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global aluminum plates and sheet coils market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated through the sales of aluminum plates and sheet coils for food and beverage, building and construction, automotive and transportation, aerospace and defense, industrial and general engineering, and other end users to calculate the market size by considering 2015 as the base year. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
According to the report, many automotive components that were usually manufactured using ferrous materials (iron or steel) are being replaced by non-ferrous materials such as aluminum and magnesium. This is attributable to properties such as the light weight, resistance to corrosion, and high conductivity of aluminum.
Further, the report states that the government of China is also providing tax rebates for the export of semi-fabricated and value-added products, which consequently reduces their costs. Due to this, regions such as the EU, are facing intense competition from semi-finished products from the country. In addition, the importers of primary aluminum from China have to absorb the hike in prices. This hike in the price of primary aluminum is also transferred to the downstream products, including aluminum plates and sheet coils, thereby hindering the market growth.
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Aluminum industry value chain
Part 06: Market landscape
Part 07: Market segmentation by end user
Part 08: Geographical segmentation
Part 09: Market drivers
Part 10: Impact of drivers
Part 11: Market challenges
Part 12: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 13: Market trends
Part 14: Vendor landscape
Part 15: Key vendor analysis
Part 16: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/j2qtgz/global_aluminum

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005709/en/