AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
HID Global®, a worldwide leader in trusted identity solutions, today announced the industry’s first end-to-end identity access management solution that enables government agencies and other organizations requiring higher security to use a single credential for accessing doors, IT systems, networks and data. The company’s new HID PIV™ (Personal Identity Verification) solution provides complete identity lifecycle management – from identity proofing, plus secure credential issuance and use, to deprovisioning of these credentials. Organizations are now able to unify physical and IT security systems to create a far more seamless experience for users, while also offering strong authentication applying trusted credential and other advanced security capabilities that are easier to procure, deploy and maintain.
“HID PIV represents the industry’s first comprehensive IAM solution that provides trusted identities for accessing both IT and physical domains,” said Brad Jarvis, Vice President and Managing Director of IAM Solutions with HID Global. “HID Global continues to develop fully integrated solutions across our portfolio of products and provide a convenient and trusted experience for our customers.”
HID PIV helps government agencies and other regulated industries such as banking, healthcare, and transportation to improve their overall security posture and consolidate physical and IT security. The company’s PIV-based solution allows organizations to use strong cryptographic credentials for users to digitally sign emails or documents, decrypt emails or files, use full disk encryption and boot protection to secure laptops, protect sensitive print jobs with secure printing and leverage many other security capabilities.
The HID PIV solution is available in two options – Express and Enterprise. HID PIV Express provides a complete high-assurance multi-factor authentication solution. The solution covers the complete lifecycle of the identity: from identity proofing, secure credential issuance, usage in IT systems and facilities access, and credential retirement.
HID PIV Enterprise extends HID PIV Express with additional integration into the company’s Quantum Secure SAFE Software Suite, a Physical Identity and Access Management (PIAM) software solution that provides the common bridge between disparate physical and IT security systems. The SAFE Suite augments HID PIV Enterprise with a variety of convenient, unified access control capabilities that deliver a more comprehensive view across otherwise disparate physical access control and visitor, tenant and contractor management systems, while also providing predictive risk analytics capabilities.
Availability
HID PIV is available now. Click here for more information.
Stay Connected with HID Global
Visit our Media Center, read our Industry Blog and follow us on Facebook and Twitter.
About HID Global
HID Global is the trusted source for innovative products, services, solutions, and know-how related to the creation, management, and use of secure identities for millions of end-users around the world. The company’s served markets include physical and logical access control, including strong authentication and credential management; card printing and personalization; visitor management systems; highly secure government and citizen ID; and identification RFID technologies used in animal ID and industry and logistics applications. The company’s primary brands include ActivID®, EasyLobby®, FARGO®, IdenTrust®, LaserCard®, Lumidigm®, Quantum Secure, and HID®. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, HID Global has over 2,700 employees worldwide and operates international offices that support more than 100 countries. HID Global® is an ASSA ABLOY Group brand. For more information, visit http://www.hidglobal.com.
® HID, the HID logo, and HID PIV are trademarks or registered trademarks of HID Global in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, and product or service names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005454/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}