TUCKER, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
GMS Inc. (GMS), a leading North American distributor of gypsum wallboard and suspended ceiling systems, announced today the acquisition of the Interior Products Supply Drywall Division and Interior Products Supply Door Division of SGI, Inc. (collectively, “IPS”) located in Fort Wayne, Indiana.
IPS, founded in 1984, is a leading supplier of interior building supplies to professional contractors throughout Northeastern Indiana. IPS services large and small projects from a single location in Fort Wayne. IPS is also the exclusive distributor of USG Ceilings in the Fort Wayne metropolitan area. IPS will operate within the Central Division of GMS and continue doing business as Interior Products Supply.
Jerry Speights, Vice President of the Central Division of GMS stated, “We welcome IPS to the GMS family and look forward to expanding our company’s professional, quality services into Indiana. I foresee IPS General Manager Jason Ehrman and his team of highly skilled professionals being instrumental in achieving the high expectations we have set forth for IPS’ continued success as they work to leverage the resources of GMS.”
“Our team at IPS is excited to move ahead as we look to build on our more than 30 years of success as we join with the GMS family. With GMS’ shared values approach and commitment to the customer, we are looking forward to creating an even stronger presence in Northeastern Indiana. I am confident that IPS’ lofty reputation will continue to thrive under the seasoned experience of GMS,” stated IPS General Manager Jason Ehrman.
About GMS:
Founded in 1971, GMS operates a network of more than 200 distribution centers across the United States. GMS’s extensive product offering of wallboard, suspended ceilings systems, or ceilings, and complementary interior construction products is designed to provide a comprehensive one-stop-shop for our core customer, the interior contractor who installs these products in commercial and residential buildings.
For more information about GMS, please visit www.gms.com.
Forward‐Looking Statements and Information:
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can generally identify forward-looking statements by our use of forward-looking terminology such as "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "might," "plan," "potential," "predict," "seek," or "should," or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections. While we believe these expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors outside of our control, that may cause our business, strategy or actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties may include, among other things: changes in the prices, supply, and/or demand for products which we distribute; general economic and business conditions in the United States; the activities of competitors; changes in significant operating expenses; changes in the availability of capital and interest rates; adverse weather patterns or conditions; acts of cyber intrusion; variations in the performance of the financial markets, including the credit markets; and other factors described in the "Risk Factors" section in our filings with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements made herein, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in expectation or otherwise.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006442/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}