LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
McKesson will showcase its comprehensive suite of technology solutions and clinical expertise designed to help hospital and health systems pharmacy leaders improve financial outcomes, increase supply chain efficiency and leverage actionable insights, here at the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists (ASHP) Midyear Clinical Meeting 2016, which runs from December 4–8, 2016. The McKesson Booth #2121 will host hands-on training sessions and solution demonstrations; and pharmacy consulting experts will be on hand for one-on-one discussions designed to show pharmacy leaders how improving pharmacy efficiency enables them to focus clinical staff on delivering quality patient care.
“Pharmacists are increasingly expected to champion initiatives designed to increase revenue and reduce costs while improving efficiency and patient care,” said Mark Eastham, Sr. Vice President and General Manager, McKesson Pharmacy Optimization®. “Our pharmacy team, a group of trusted advisors that work with health systems to help elevate the value that pharmacy brings to the health system, can help identify opportunities and work with hospital pharmacies to achieve success in critical areas such as patient safety and quality outcomes: rigorous financial performance, employee collaboration for operational efficiency, and integration of critical technology systems.”
McKesson Booth
Visitors to McKesson Booth #2121 will learn how the Power of “&” can work for them by taking advantage of the following opportunities:
Solution Demonstrations
Attendees can get a first-hand look at a number of solutions designed to address top pharmacy challenges.
ASHP Poster Sessions and Presentations to Feature McKesson Solutions
ASHP will feature a number of McKesson customers and solutions in poster sessions and presentations covering the following topics:
Posters
Presentations
About McKesson Corporation
McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 5th on the FORTUNE 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to making the business of healthcare run better. McKesson partners with payers, hospitals, physician offices, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies, and others across the spectrum of care to build healthier organizations that deliver better care to patients in every setting. McKesson helps its customers improve their financial, operational, and clinical performance with solutions that include pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management, healthcare information technology, and business and clinical services. For more information, visit www.mckesson.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005292/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}