NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has upgraded the following Wilson, NC ratings:
--Issuer Default Rating (IDR) to 'AA+' from 'AA';
--$7.3 million general obligation (GO) bonds, series 2009 to 'AA+' from 'AA'.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The bonds are general obligations of the city for the payment of which the city's full faith and credit and unlimited taxing power are irrevocably pledged.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The upgrade reflects application of Fitch's revised criteria for U.S. state and local governments, which was released on April 18. The revised criteria highlight the city's solid revenue framework, low long-term liability burden, and outstanding gap-closing capacity. The 'AA+' IDR and GO ratings reflect the city's stable growth prospects and ample financial flexibility, including sizable reserves and broad budgetary tools.
Economic Resource Base
Wilson is located along Interstate 95 roughly 50 miles east of Raleigh. The city's estimated 2015 population of 49,643 has experienced modest growth of about 1% since 2010.
Revenue Framework: 'aa' factor assessment
Revenues have been rising at a pace in line with U.S. GDP growth. The city has the independent legal ability to raise property tax revenues in an unlimited amount.
Expenditure Framework: 'aa' factor assessment
Expenditures have grown at about the pace of revenues, and Fitch expects that trend to continue. Low carrying costs and broad flexibility to manage labor-related costs allow the city solid leeway to adjust spending throughout economic cycles.
Long-Term Liability Burden: 'aaa' factor assessment
The combined burden of debt and unfunded pension liabilities is low in relation to personal income and should remain relatively stable over time based on modest future capital and issuance plans, rapid principal amortization (100% in five years) and minimal pension liabilities.
Operating Performance: 'aaa' factor assessment
The city's superior budget flexibility including ample general fund balance positions it to comfortably manage through economic downturns without diminishing its overall financial flexibility.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Continued Strong Financial Operations: The rating is sensitive to shifts in fundamental credit characteristics, including the city's strong financial flexibility. The Stable Outlook reflects Fitch's expectation that such shifts are unlikely.
CREDIT PROFILE
Manufacturing makes up a significant portion of local economic activity. There is a diverse mix of industries within the sector, including pharmaceutical, tire, and tobacco-related companies. Bridgestone Americas, Inc., one of the city's top employers, is in the process of expanding its facilities. The city's tax base is somewhat concentrated with the top taxpayer accounting for nearly 4% of assessed value (AV) and the top ten taxpayers 17%. City officials expect that recent improvements to local industrial parks should attract new investment.
Employment growth has lagged both the U.S. and the state which is reflected in the city's high unemployment rate.
Revenue Framework
The city relies on a combination of property taxes and sales and other taxes, which equate to 49% and 16% of general fund revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2016, as well as intergovernmental revenues (17%).
The city's general fund revenue growth has trended above the rate of inflation on a compound average annual (CAGR) basis over the 10 years ended in fiscal 2016 at over 3%. While the city's AV CAGR for the same period was in line with total revenue growth, AV declined in fiscal 2017. Sales tax revenues have performed well over the past decade but revenue growth does include some broadening of the sales tax base.
The city maintains a healthy capacity under the statutory property tax cap of $1.50 per $100 of AV with a fiscal 2017 tax rate of $0.555.
Expenditure Framework
The city's largest spending area is public safety, which makes up about 48% of general fund spending.
The pace of spending on operating functions is likely to remain in line with revenue growth. As such, spending growth is expected to increase in line with revenue growth.
The city's expenditure flexibility is aided by a workforce environment that is favorable to management. Employment terms are not subject to collective bargaining. As such, management has independent control of compensation and work rules. The city makes annual contributions for capital projects which in fiscal 2016 totaled over $2 million or a notable 5% of general fund spending, adding additional budgetary flexibility.
Carrying costs associated with debt service, actuarially determined pension payments and OPEB actual contributions totaled a low 8% of governmental spending in fiscal 2016. Carrying costs include contributions to the state's Local Governmental Employees' Retirement System (LGERS) as well as several supplemental plans. After fully funding the OPEB annual required contribution (ARC) in fiscal 2014, the city has scaled back funding. During fiscal 2016, the city funded about 85% of the OPEB ARC. The city plans to continue to fund OPEB on a pay-go basis.
Long-Term Liability Burden
Overall debt and unfunded pension liabilities are low at approximately 1% of the city's personal income, excluding self-supporting enterprise debt. About 67% of the city's overall debt reflects the overlapping debt of Wilson County. The majority of the city's future capital needs will be paid on a pay-go basis, including an increase in the city's occupancy tax. No new debt issuances are planned. All outstanding debt (excluding self-supporting debt) is amortized within five years.
City employees participate in LGERS, which is administrated by the state. The system is funded at 96% based on a Fitch-adjusted 7% return assumption. The city also participates in the Law Enforcement Officers' Special Separation Allowance plan, which it has been funding on a pay-go basis. The unfunded liability for both plans is minimal. The city's unfunded OPEB liability of $41.9 million is modest, accounting for about 2% of personal income.
Operating Performance
Given the city's superior inherent budget flexibility in the form of control over revenues and spending capacity, Fitch expects the city to manage through economic downturns while maintaining a high level of fundamental financial flexibility. Reserves are expected to remain above the city's 25% policy and well above what Fitch believes is needed throughout economic cycles to maintain exceptional gap-closing capacity. The unrestricted general fund balance of nearly $20 million in fiscal 2016 was a high 42% of spending. The city's reserve required by state statute, which is primarily to offset accounts receivable, is an additional source of financial flexibility and increases the total available fund balance to $24 million or 51%.
The city proved its financial resilience and strong budget management through the most recent recession by deferring capital purchases and projects and reducing staff through attrition. Fitch expects the city to make similar operational changes as needed during a future economic downturn.
The fiscal 2017 general fund budget of $47.9 million is about a 5% increase over the original fiscal 2016 budget. The fiscal 2017 budget includes a four-cent tax rate increase reflecting an estimated 8% decline in AV following the recent reassessment of taxable property within the city; this will be the first tax rate increase since 2007. The budget also includes a $3.95 million fund balance appropriation. Given the city's over a decade long history of not using appropriated fund balance, Fitch expects operations to be positive relative to budget.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
In addition to the sources of information identified in the applicable criteria specified below, this action was informed by information from Lumesis and InvestorTools.
Applicable Criteria
U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016218
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016218
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005476/en/