A U.S. president-elect saying that he liquidated his multimillion dollar stock portfolio would normally put a swift end to talk about conflicts of interest . Donald Trump, of course, is no typical president-elect. The Trump Organization’s global business interests raise almost limitless possibilities for conflicts, or at least the appearance thereof. Trump has said he will disclose on Dec. 15 a plan to “take me completely out of business operations” at his company. Nothing short of complete divestiture will satisfy critics.
He’ll be a leader with commercial projects and partnerships across the globe . He listed more than 500 businesses in a personal disclosure form filed during the campaign, suggesting at least some stake in licensing, hotel, golf and other businesses in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China, Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Israel, the Philippines and Turkey. As Bloomberg View’s Timothy L. O’Brien wrote in June, “it would be hard to conceive of any major global trade deal that wouldn’t raise a red flag given Trump’s international presence.”
More from Bloomberg.com: Boeing Sweats Under Trump Spotlight as SoftBank Feels Warmth
In Trump’s case, conflicts could arise if, say, an interest group or foreign government steered business to a Trump property. Or if he favored a country where he has a commercial interest, or the American television network that airs his show . Or if the Trump Organization, as a landlord or lease-holder, must negotiate with the federal government. The list goes on: The Trump Organization’s largest lender, Deutsche Bank, is working to settle a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit. The lease on the new Trump-branded hotel in Washington, blocks from the White House, appears to bar participation by any elected official, which Trump undeniably is.
That selling his stock portfolio and his plan to step away from operations took care of the conflict issue. Also that by definition , "the president can’t have a conflict of interest."
Strictly speaking, yes. Congress specifically exempted the president and vice president from the federal law banning members of the executive branch from taking "acts affecting a personal financial interest." Still, most recent presidents have placed their assets in a blind trust , to avoid even the appearance of conflicts.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Says China Will Have to Play by Rules Under New Ambassador
No. His investments are mostly in Treasury notes and index funds, and he doesn’t control their allocation, so the potential for conflict was seen as minimal. Instead, he discloses his investments every year.
He’s uttered those words without seeming to fully grasp the implications. To use a blind trust, a public official must turn his or her holdings over to an independent trustee, who becomes the exclusive decision-maker on keeping, selling or reinvesting them. The trustee has no contact with the official. Trump, by contrast, talked about establishing a blind trust run by his own children . Plus, his assets are hard to miss: There’s little question that he derives income from the Trump Towers Istanbul . To create a truly blind trust, Trump would probably have to liquidate his holdings.
More from Bloomberg.com: Koch Industries Says House GOP’s Tax Plan ‘Could Be Devastating’
Laws against accepting bribes apply to all Americans. Then there’s the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which prohibits a “person holding any office of profit or trust” from accepting a “present, emolument, office or title” from a foreign state without Congress’s permission. The rule is why, for instance, President Barack Obama didn’t keep  an $18,000 watch given to him by a former Saudi king. Trump’s interests create more opportunities for emolument -- "returns arising from office or employment usually in the form of compensation or perquisites," per Merriam-Webster -- than for a typical president. Whether the Republican-led Congress would press him on it is another question.
The most sweeping recommendation is that Trump sell his business in full. This is what the normally tight-lipped U.S. Office of Governmental Ethics seemed to believe Trump declared Nov. 30 when he said he would leave his business “in total.” The office, which is charged with preventing conflicts of interest in the executive branch, lauded Trump that day with a torrent of tweets, one of which said, "Bravo! Only way to resolve these conflicts of interest is to divest. Good call!" One problem: Trump didn’t say he’d divest .
Political operative David Brock said his super-PAC will mine Trump’s statements and business interests for dirt, using the Freedom of Information Act, among other tools. Former advisers to Obama and George W. Bush who have warned of Trump’s potential conflicts have joined an accountability watchdog, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.
David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey, who served in the Justice Department under Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, wrote in the Washington Post that it’s unfair to expect Trump "to sell off business holdings that he has built and managed most of his life, and with which he is personally identified in a way that few other business magnates are." Their recommendation: Trump should "establish a firewall between himself and his adult children with respect to family business affairs," with his children promising to ask for a legal review of "any potential transactions involving foreign corporations."
In a Bloomberg National Poll conducted in December, two-thirds surveyed said he should choose between being businessman or president. However, only 26 percent said Trump should sell all his businesses, while 69 percent said that would "go too far."
More from Bloomberg.com
Read About Those Trump Conflict-of-Interest Worries... on bloombergpolitics.com