NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Colorado-based broker/dealer, The Leaders Group, Inc., announced today that it has chosen Advizr as the exclusive financial planning software offered to their financial advisors. The Leaders Group serves as the premier broker dealer for BGAs, specializing in whole life insurance distribution.
Starting today, more than 300 financial advisors with The Leaders Group will have access to Advizr to service their mass affluent and senior clientele. Through the Advizr process, The Leaders Group advisors will be able to serve more clients while saving time with a series of Advizr tools that handle the heavy lifting of planning with features such as self-directed data discovery wizard, smart cash-flow optimizer, and interactive what-ifs/calibration module.
“We are extremely excited and honored to be chosen by such an influential and fast growing group as The Leaders Group. We look forward to being their financial planning software offering for their advisors. At the same time we are confident that we’ll add considerable value to the company and to each and every financial advisor using our software.” Said Hussain Zaidi, Advizr Co-founder & CEO.
Advizr, a rising star in the fintech world, has garnered a great deal of attention from the industry. The company was awarded the Best Client Facing Solution of 2015 by Bill Winterberg’s FPPad in addition to being nominated two years in a row as the best financial planning software by wealthmanagement.com.
“We are very excited to welcome Advizr to The Leaders Group family. We always look to the future, and in doing so, we see that Advizr is about to become the new 500 lb. gorilla, and is several years ahead of the tech curve.” Said Sean Wickersham, The Leaders Group EVP of Operations and Marketing.
The Leaders Group has been the choice for industry-leading GAs, and financial advisers during the past 20 years because of their unique understanding of a diverse range of advisors’ businesses and their flexibility to accommodate any unique business model or situation. Through this platform the group is further strengthening their offering and market positioning.
About Advizr
Advizr, based in New York, NY, is dedicated to creating software that will expand consumer and advisor access to high-quality financial planning services in an accessible format. The powerful, automated, interactive financial planning solution empowers advisors to serve their clients in a cost-effective way, regardless of net worth. To learn more about Advizr, please visit www.advizr.com.
The Leaders Group
The Leaders Group is an independent broker/dealer with a national footprint of more than 700 representatives involved in the securities business. Throughout its 22 years in the industry, The Leaders Group and its representatives have developed expertise in both the retail and wholesale sides of the life insurance and securities fields, with the company being the number one distributor broker/dealer of Variable Life Insurance in the world - 9 years running.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005460/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}