CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has assigned VTR Finance B.V. (VTR) Long-Term Foreign Currency and Local Currency Issuer Default Ratings (IDR) of 'BB-'. The Rating Outlook is Stable. Fitch has also assigned a 'BB-' to the company's USD1.4 billion senior secured notes due 2024 and revolving credit facility.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
VTR's ratings reflect its strong market position in the Chilean telecom industry in Chile, primarily Pay TV and Internet services. VTR's ratings are supported by its competitive network quality, brand recognition, and successful commercial strategy for its bundled services offerings. The company's cash flow generation is relatively stable, despite a highly competitive environment, and it boasts strong financial flexibility underpinned by its long dated debt maturity profile and committed credit facility.
The ratings are tempered by its moderately high leverage for the rating level, pressured free cash flow (FCF) generation in the short to medium term due to high capex, a mature and highly competitive industry backdrop, and a lack of service diversification compared to the other integrated telecom operators in the country.
VTR is a wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty Global plc (LG), and is a part of the LiLAC Group (LiLAC), which represents LG's Latin America and Caribbean operations. The company benefits from the strategic oversight by LG and its management expertise, as well as procurement and operating synergies. LiLAC operating entities are separately capitalized and operations are managed independently. LG maintains the common group leverage target of 4.0x-5.0x for its subsidiaries, which is slightly higher than the company's current leverage. Fitch believes that any material improvement in the company's financial profile from the current level would be difficult as any significant deviation from the group's financial target could be limited.
Strong Market Position:
VTR is the leading provider of pay TV and broadband services in Chile, with subscriber market shares of 35% and 37% on a national basis, respectively, followed closely by its main incumbent competitor, Telefonica Chile S.A., as of June 30, 2016. VTR is also the second largest fixed-line telephony service provider, with a 20% of subscriber market share during the same period. The company has consistently increased its overall revenue generating units (RGU) in recent years, backed by its effective bundled product strategy based on network and service competitiveness. In the mobile service, the company operates as a virtual network operator (MVNO) with a low market share of just 1%. Fitch does not expect any material cash flow contribution from this segment in the short to medium term.
Stable Operating Performance:
VTR's performance has remained solid through the combination of continued ARPU growth and subscriber expansion. The company's revenue growth averaged 6% during 2013-2015 with solid EBITDA margin improvement to 39% from 36% during the period, and the trend has continued during the first nine months of 2016. This solid performance has been entirely achieved by growth in its Internet and pay TV services, which have fully offset reductions in fixed-line telephony services revenues due to the ongoing mobile-fixed substitution trend. Fitch expects the company's revenue growth to continue over the medium term, with relatively stable EBITDA margins of 37%-38% over the medium term.
High Capex:
Fitch does not expect any meaningful FCF generation over the medium term due to high capex requirements. While Fitch believes that VTR should continue to enjoy strong growth of data and pay TV services in the Chilean market, given its attractive range of services and its solid market position, the competitive pressures could increase for subscriber acquisition amid increasing market maturity. To ensure its service quality and to increase coverage, Fitch expects the company to increase its capital investment, measured by capex to sales, to about 22% during 2016-2018, compared to 19% in 2015.
Stable Leverage:
VTR's financial leverage is deemed moderately high for the rating level. The company's debt is mostly comprised of its USD1.4 billion senior secured notes due 2024, which were issued in 2014. The proceeds were used to pay off debt at UPC Holding B.V., which is LG's European subsidiary and credit pool. The company's adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 3.8x, including the net fair value of hedge derivatives, as of Sept. 30, 2016, which was a modest improvement from 4.2x at end-2014 due to EBITDA improvement. Fitch expects the company's leverage to remain stable during 2016-2018, barring any material amounts of cash paid to the parent, as its suppressed FCF generation to be offset to a degree by continued modest growth in EBITDA.
DERIVATION SUMMARY
VTR's lack of service diversification amid the mature market conditions in Chile, and its moderately high leverage compared to the more diversified competitors in Chile and the regional peers in the 'BB' rating category are credit negatives. Also, LG's group financial policy is a constraint on VTR's ratings. These weaknesses are mitigated to a degree by its leading market positions and solid network competitiveness, and financial flexibility, all of which are deemed solid for the rating level. No country ceiling, parent-subsidiary linkage, or operating environment aspects impact.
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
--Mid-single digits revenue growth over the medium term, with strong growth in Internet services and Pay TV;
--Capex-to-sales ratio to remain at around 22% ;
--No meaningful FCF generation in 2017-2018;
--EBITDA margin in the range of 37%-38% during 2016-2018;
--Adjusted net debt to EBITDAR ratio to remain below 4.0x over the medium term.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Future Developments that May, Individually or Collectively, Lead to Negative Rating Action
--Deterioration in operating performance leading to muted revenue growth amid margin erosion;
--Sustained negative FCF generation amid higher-than-expected capex requirement;
--Any material cash flow upstream to LG;
--Its adjusted net leverage increasing toward 4.5x on a sustained basis.
Future Developments That May, Individually or Collectively, Lead to Positive Rating Action
--Continued solid top-line growth along with margin expansion, and positive FCF generation;
--Clear commitment for deleveraging in the absence of any material cash flow upstream to LG, resulting in its adjusted net leverage falling well below 3.5x on a sustained basis.
LIQUIDITY
VTR's liquidity profile is sound as the company does not face any debt maturity until 2024 when its senior secured notes become due. The company's cash balance amounted to CLP75.7 billion (USD114 million) by end-September 2016, and its operational cash flow generation is relatively stable. In line with other LG operating subsidiaries, the Chilean operating subsidiaries of VTR has a senior secured credit facility of USD160 million and CLP22 billion in place, which remains undrawn and supports its financial flexibility, if necessary.
FULL LIST OF RATING ACTIONS
Fitch has assigned the following ratings.
VTR Finance B.V
-- Long-Term Foreign Currency and Local Currency IDRs 'BB-'/Outlook Stable;
-- USD1.4 billion senior secured notes 'BB-'.
-- Secured revolving credit facility 'BB-'.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Criteria for Rating Non-Financial Corporates (pub. 27 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/885629
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016076
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016076
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006391/en/