COOPERSBURG, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Lutron Electronics, a recognized leader in the smart home industry, today announced the compatibility of its affordably-priced Caséta Wireless system with the new Wi-Fi® and Apple® HomeKit™-enabled Symphony and Signal ceiling fans from Hunter® Fan Company. Available now for $299 and $349, respectively, these are the first HomeKit-enabled ceiling fans on the market with more models to follow soon.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005639/en/ 
Last year, the Caséta Wireless system was hailed as one of the first Apple HomeKit-enabled products on the market. Now, using the Lutron App, homeowners can easily adjust their Hunter Symphony and Signal ceiling fans (including the light) to a preferred setting, and easily set the perfect scene with other lights and shades. Caséta Wireless users can also use convenient voice control – simply tell Siri, “Turn on the fan,” or “Dim the family room light to 50 percent.”
Lutron launched the Caséta Wireless Smart Bridge and dimmers as a quick and easy way to control lights, shades, temperature, and now audio, from anywhere inside or outside the home (even while on vacation), enhancing home comfort and security.
“Lutron creates great homeowner experiences,” said Matt Swatsky, director of product management at Lutron Electronics. “It’s all about making life easier. With our products you can control lights, shades, temperature and audio with an easy-to-use app on a smart device. Giving homeowners the ability to control their ceiling fans from the convenient Lutron app, or from Siri, is just a natural extension of the way Lutron approaches comfort and convenience within the home.”
“Hunter Fan is excited to work with Lutron to offer this next generation of control,” said Jeremy Tarr, Director of Business Development at Hunter Fan Company. “Our fans efficiently enhance comfort and contribute to the ambiance of the room along with many other devices. Now, with the Caséta Wireless system, consumers can easily adjust all of those elements to personalize their environment.”
Where to Buy Caséta Wireless
Priced from $99, Caséta Wireless kits are available on Amazon.com, Apple Stores and Apple.com, BestBuy.com® and Best Buy® stores, HomeDepot.com and The Home Depot® stores, Lowes.com and Lowe’s Home Improvement centers, Magnolia® Design Centers, select Magnolia Home Theater stores, and from local electricians, lighting showrooms, electrical distributors and home technology professionals.
The free Lutron App for Caséta Wireless is available on iTunes® and Google Play®. Caséta Wireless enables dimming of incandescent, halogen, dimmable CFL, and dimmable LED bulbs – visit the Lutron LED Control Center of Excellence for more information about compatible bulbs.
Visit www.casetawireless.com for more information.
About Lutron Electronics (www.lutron.com)
Founded in 1961, Lutron Electronics is headquartered in Coopersburg, Pennsylvania. From dimmers for the home, to lighting management systems for entire buildings, the company offers more than 15,000 energy-saving products, sold in more than 100 countries. In the US alone, Lutron products save an estimated 10 billion kWh of electricity, or approximately $1 billion in utility costs per year. The company’s early inventions— including the first solid-state electronic dimmer invented by Lutron’s founder, Joel Spira—are now at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History in Washington, DC.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005639/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005639/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}