DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
More than 50 women gathered in a strong show of support for deployed troops at the Strategic Wealth Partners (SWP) SWP Women, Wealth & Wisdom Luncheon at Northmoor Country Club in Highland Park.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006317/en/ 
With the holidays approaching, guests were asked to bring leftover Halloween candy and wish list items to donate to our deployed troops through the non-profit organization, Operation Gratitude. Their generous donations amounted to 44 pounds of candy and many other requested items, including dental supplies, hygiene products, stationary, winter hats, gloves and more. The women also had an opportunity to write personalized letters of gratitude to the troops.
In addition to a focus on troops, the luncheon featured health and wellness speaker and “Oh Lardy” Real Food blogger Tamara Mannelly.
“Our inspiration for this event is to help all of us continue to grow, explore and find purpose in everything we do,” said Ashley Bebeau, CFP®, Senior Financial Planner at SWP. “We understand you are busy, probably taking care of people you love. We want to make sure you are taking care of yourself as well.”
Another objective for the event was to build deeper relationships between clients and the ten women employed by the firm.
“Our vision is to build a sustainable firm that will be here to serve the many future generations of clients’ families,” said Moira Fahey-Ullrich, Principal & Chief Solutions Officer of SWP.
ABOUT STRATEGIC WEALTH PARTNERS
Strategic Wealth Partners is an investment advisory and financial planning firm providing wealth strategies and independent, objective advice to high net worth individuals and institutions. Founded in 2008 by principals David Copeland and Neal Price, the firm provides a complete wealth management platform by integrating all elements of a comprehensive strategy including investments, insurance, estate planning and tax counseling. Learn more at www.stratwealth.com.
DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
This article is intended for informational purposes only. The information published in this article is subject to change on a regular basis without notice. Information contained in this article should not be relied upon as investment advice specific to the reader’s investment objectives. Read Full Disclosure Here

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006317/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006317/en/