AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed the 'AA+' rating to the following San Angelo, TX obligations:
--Long-Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR);
--$40.2 million general obligation (GO) refunding bonds, series 2007, 2009, 2011 and 2016;
--$31 million combination tax and limited surplus revenue certificates of obligation (COs), series 2008, 2009, 2011A and 2016;
--$5.2 million combination tax and revenue COs, series 2007A.
The Rating Outlook is Stable.
SECURITY
The GOs and COs are payable from a direct annual ad valorem tax, limited to $2.50 per $100 assessed valuation, levied against all taxable property within the city. The COs are further payable from a limited, de minimis pledge ($1,000) of the surplus net revenues of the city's waterworks and sewer system revenues.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The 'AA+' IDR, GO and CO rating reflects the city's favorable revenue framework, strong reserve position, and low liability burden. Strong budgeting practices and significant revenue raising capacity provide flexibility in the case of economic downturns, despite the somewhat elevated carrying costs.
Economic Resource Base
San Angelo is the seat of Tom Green County and has an estimated population of roughly 100,000, encompassing 59 square miles in west-central Texas. The local economy is diverse for a city of its size, and population growth has been modest and steady in recent years.
Revenue Framework: 'aaa' factor assessment
San Angelo has realized strong revenue growth over the past 10 years and maintains sizable ad valorem tax rate capacity.
Expenditure Framework: 'aa' factor assessment
Adequate expenditure flexibility results from strong workforce control and somewhat elevated carrying costs. Fitch expects expenditures to grow in line with revenues.
Long-Term Liability Burden: 'aaa' factor assessment
The long-term liability burden is low relative to the resource base. Pensions are adequately funded. Overlapping debt, which is difficult to predict, comprises the largest portion of the liability. Direct debt plans appear affordable and are not expected to materially change the burden.
Operating Performance: 'aaa' factor assessment
Fitch expects the city to demonstrate a high degree of gap closing ability during an economic downturn based on its adequate expenditure flexibility and high independent revenue-raising capacity. The city's financial cushion is ample given the historically low volatility of general fund revenues.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Spending Flexibility: The rating is sensitive to the city's ability to make expenditure cuts throughout the economic cycle, though Fitch believes large shifts in the city's spending profile are unlikely.
CREDIT PROFILE
The city's economy is stable, anchored by agriculture, education, healthcare, government, telecommunications, and energy. In addition, there is a sizeable military presence at nearby Goodfellow Air Force Base that is the city's largest employer at 5,500.
San Angelo's location to the east of the Permian Basin does expose it to energy sector volatility, but the local economy has largely been insulated from the boom and bust cycle as the city sits on the periphery of drilling activity. Instead, the city's tax base is characterized by steady growth, marking only one year of very modest contraction the last 10 years.
Revenue Framework
Property taxes average a bit less than half of general fund revenues, followed by sales taxes at about a quarter of the budget.
General fund revenues grew at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 4.7% in the decade leading up to 2015, in excess of U.S. economic performance. General fund revenues have grown across-the-board while the city reduced the property tax rate, likely muting the pace of natural growth. Future growth may be somewhat tempered in the near term given a contraction in sales tax revenues due to reduced exploration and production activity in the regional economy, though revenue growth is likely to keep pace with historical trends long term given the diverse local economy.
Management has gradually reduced the tax rate from $0.86830 per $100 taxable assessed value (TAV) in fiscal 2005 to $0.776 in fiscal 2017, well below the statutory cap of $2.50. If a proposed tax rate results in an 8% year-over-year levy increase or more (based on the prior year's values), the rate increase may be subject to election if petitioned by voters. The city does not have plans to increase the rate in the near term.
Expenditure Framework
Public safety makes up the bulk of general fund spending at over half of the budget. Spending growth in that area has trended in line with overall general fund expenditure growth.
The pace of spending on operating functions is likely to remain in line with revenue growth. Fitch does not anticipate growth-related pressure on spending given most capital needs are being addressed through debt issuance.
The city maintains adequate expenditure flexibility through significant control of workforce costs and somewhat elevated carrying costs. Fiscal 2015 carrying costs were 20% of governmental spending, and will likely remain stable as some debt rolls off and additional issuances are sold.
Long-Term Liability Burden
The city's long-term liability burden is low at approximately 7% of personal income. General government capital needs are primarily for streets and are being funded with a series of COs over the next 10 years. The largest component of the liability is overlapping debt, which is difficult to predict; however, taking into account the direct debt issuance schedule and amortization rate, Fitch believes the liability burden will remain low over this period of time.
The city participates in the Texas Municipal Retirement System (TMRS), an agent multiple-employer defined benefit plan. Additionally, the city is the administrator of the Firemen's Relief and Retirement Fund, a single-employer defined benefit pension plan.
Under GASB Statement 68, the city reports a fiscal 2015 TMRS net pension liability (NPL) of $33.2 million with fiduciary assets covering 84% of total pension liabilities at the plan's 7% investment return assumption and based on a Dec. 31, 2014 valuation date. The city reports a fiscal 2015 Firemen's net pension liability (NPL) of $34.6 million, with fiduciary assets covering 64% of total pension liabilities at a 7% return assumption (adjusted as a substitute for the plan rate of 7.75%). The Firemen's valuation date is Dec. 31, 2013. The NPL of both plans represents a less than 2% of personal income.
Operating Performance
The city has grown reserves substantially in recent years, which should allow it to manage through periods of economic weakness while preserving a high level of fundamental financial flexibility. The city's financials perform very well under a moderate economic stress scenario generated by the Fitch Analytical Sensitivity Tool (FAST) even without considering the offsetting policy action that Fitch expects the city would take to address recessionary revenue declines.
The city budgets conservatively and has used the recent years of positive operating results for paygo capital spending and to boost general fund reserves. Management reports fiscal 2016 audited results will likely have a modest deficit due to the shortfall of sales tax revenues (down 12% from the prior fiscal year). The fiscal 2017 adopted budget is balanced and largely similar to the prior year with property tax revenue growth offsetting some projected sales tax revenue declines.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'.
In addition to the sources of information identified in the applicable criteria specified below, this action was informed by information from Lumesis, the Municipal Advisory Council of Texas, and InvestorTools.
Applicable Criteria
U.S. Tax-Supported Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Apr 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/879478
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016214
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016214
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005479/en/