MIAMI & DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Southern Glazer’s Wine & Spirits (“Southern Glazer’s”) — the largest North American wine and spirits distribution company — tapped into the expertise of its top mixologists to offer some tips for setting up a home bar for holiday entertaining. From the latest holiday cocktail trends to tricks of the trade, these tips will help any host tend bar like pro and impress holiday guests.
Stock Up on Staples
Make sure to have a selection of base spirits, as well as modifiers and mixers, to satisfy the diverse taste of your holiday guests.
Do the Math and Don’t Run Out
Proper planning and a bit of math will prevent guests from going thirsty. Follow some of these basic guidelines to help keep the party going.
Bring the Hottest Bar Trends Home
Homemade punches and classic holiday cocktails are all the rage.
Raise the Bar with the Right Tools
A basic bar kit and the right mix of glassware is key to setting up a home bartender for success.
Impress Your Guests with Tips from Our Pros
The more adventurous home bartender can try one of these inside tips from Southern Glazer’s mixology team to hit a home run with holiday guests.
The Number One Tip
As holiday party hosts are making merry, always remember to enjoy Southern Glazer’s Wine & Spirits products responsibly and encourage guests to do the same.
Southern Glazer’s employs 15 Master Mixologists across North America, responsible for educating bartenders, beverage buyers, and corporate clients about the latest trends in cocktail culture. Michelin star chefs, national restaurant chains, international hotels, and top spirits brands rely on Southern Glazer’s expert Mixologists to help them develop world-class beverage programs that raise the bar for today’s demanding consumers. Southern Glazer’s Mixologists hold multiple certifications from accredited organizations such as the U.S. Bartenders Guild, BarSmarts, the Wine & Spirit Education Trust, Society of Wine Educators, and the Cicerone Certification Program, to name a few.
About Southern Glazer’s Wine & Spirits
Southern Glazer’s Wine & Spirits is North America’s largest wine and spirits distributor, and the preeminent data insights company for alcoholic beverages. The Company has operations in 44 U.S. states and the District of Columbia, Canada, and the Caribbean, and employs more than 20,000 team members. Southern Glazer’s urges all retail customers and adult consumers to market, sell, serve, and enjoy its products responsibly. For more information visit www.southernglazers.com. Follow us on Twitter and Instagram @sgwinespirits and on Facebook at Facebook.com/SouthernGlazers.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005066/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}