LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
In time for the 2016 holiday season and throughout 2017, Luxe Hotels, a Southern California-based boutique hotel brand, announced today that it is teaming up with Children’s Hospital Los Angeles (CHLA) to help build healthier futures for critically ill and injured children across Southern California and beyond.
Starting today and extending throughout 2017, guests at both corporately-owned Southern California Luxe Hotels including the brand’s flagship property, Luxe Rodeo Drive Hotel in Beverly Hills, CA and Luxe Sunset Boulevard Hotel in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles will be encouraged to extend their good wishes from their stay in Los Angeles by donating to CHLA upon checkout. The funds raised will directly support care for the children of Los Angeles. Luxe Hotels has the aim of reaching its stated fundraising goal of $25,000 over the next 14 months.
“Serving our community is a core value at Luxe Hotels, and through our ‘Luxe Giving Back’ program we are delighted to partner with our loyal guests who when visiting our properties in Los Angeles can support Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, one of the crown jewels of our greater Los Angeles community,” said Efrem Harkham, founder and chairman of Luxe Hotels. “The amazing support and compassionate care that Children’s Hospital Los Angeles provides is second to none,” continued Harkham.
Guests will have the option of giving to CHLA discreetly via in-room cards in the amounts of $10 to $25 to $50 or opt to choose their amount. Each donation is 100% tax deductible and will help ensure critical, lifesaving care is available to every child CHLA treats.
“We are thrilled to be a part of Luxe’s Giving Back program at their Sunset and Rodeo properties,” said Dawn Wilcox, Vice President of Corporate Partnerships, Children’s Hospital Los Angeles. “We rely on the support of businesses, individuals and the community to ensure the continued care and treatment of children and families across Los Angeles. Unique programs such as this one allow individuals to participate in a meaningful way, knowing that their stay at the Luxe Hotels and their donation upon checking out, will contribute to the work we do in saving lives, finding cures and improving the quality of life of thousands of children and their families in Los Angeles and beyond.”
CHLA has been providing pediatric healthcare to the Los Angeles community since 1901 and is one of the largest children’s hospitals in Southern California.
About Luxe Hotels
Luxe Hotels, a leading boutique hotel brand, is recognized for its distinct individuality and personality. The Luxe Hotels brand epitomizes exceptional design, unique style and a sense of place. Luxe Hotels includes Luxe Rodeo Drive Hotel, Luxe Sunset Boulevard Hotel and Luxe City Center Hotel, all of which are part of the premier collection of L.E. Hotels. Led by visionary hotelier, Efrem Harkham, the brand is committed to bolstering each independent property’s efforts to increase its visibility, viability and sales. Luxe Hotels properties benefit from the brand’s exceptional reputation for an unrivaled standard of excellence and more than three decades of hotel operational experience. Luxe Hotels is a brand of Harkham Hospitality, Inc. For more information, visit, www.LuxeHotels.com.
About Children’s Hospital Los Angeles
Children’s Hospital Los Angeles is a nonprofit pediatric academic medical center dedicated to creating hope and building healthier futures for children. CHLA treats children more than half a million times each year—often for complex health conditions that can only be treated at the top children’s hospital in California. As a pediatric charity of choice, the hospital relies on the generosity of the community to support its groundbreaking pediatric research and the complex care it provides for critically ill and injured children. For more information, visit CHLA.org. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and LinkedIn, or visit our blog: WeTreatKidsBetter.org.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006172/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}