LAKELAND, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Publix Super Markets is issuing a voluntary recall for certain Publix Premium Pancake and Waffle Mixes after being informed by the supplier that milk powder used as an ingredient may contain Salmonella.
The mixes were sold at Publix stores in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, Tennessee and North Carolina. All lot codes of the following items are affected by this recall:
Salmonella is a bacterium that can cause diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps and most individuals recover without treatment. In some cases, diarrhea may be so severe that the patient needs to be hospitalized. The elderly, infants, and those with impaired immune systems are more likely to have a severe illness.
"As part of our commitment to food safety, potentially impacted product has been removed from all store shelves,” said Maria Brous, Publix media and community relations director. "To date, there have been no reported cases of illness. Consumers who have purchased the product in question may return the product to their local store for a full refund. Publix customers with additional questions may call our Customer Care department at 1-800-242-1227 or visit our website at www.publix.com. Customers can also contact the US Food and Drug Administration at 1-888-SAFEFOOD (1-888-723-3366).”
Publix is privately owned and operated by its 186,000 employees, with 2015 sales of $32.4 billion. Currently Publix has 1,135 stores in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina and North Carolina. The company has been named one of Fortune’s “100 Best Companies to Work For in America” for 19 consecutive years. In addition, Publix’s dedication to superior quality and customer service is recognized among the top in the grocery business. For more information, visit the company’s website, corporate.publix.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006346/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwnowrap {white-space: nowrap !important;} .bwpadl0 {padding-left: 0.0px !important;} .bwpadr0 {padding-right: 0.0px !important;} .bwsinglebottom {border-bottom-color: black !important; border-bottom-style: solid !important; border-bottom-width: 1.0pt !important;} .bwtablemarginb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwvertalignt {vertical-align: top !important;} ;}