OSLO, Norway--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Nordic Nanovector ASA (NANO.OL), a biotechnology company focusing on the development and commercialisation of novel targeted therapeutics in haematology and oncology, announces that its Chief Executive Officer, Luigi Costa, will today present a company overview at the Nordic-American Life Sciences Conference in New York.
During the presentation, Mr Costa will introduce Betalutin®, a potential first-in-class treatment for non-Hodgkin lymphoma as well as providing a summary of the company’s broader development strategy based around building a pipeline of innovative targeted therapies for haematological cancers.
The Nordic-American Life Science Conference is an investor and partnering conference gathering healthcare technology executives and investors from the Nordic countries and North America. The conference connects promising, innovative healthcare technology companies and Nordic Life Science organizations with investors, external innovation scouts and business developers in the U.S (www.nalsconference.com/nordic-us-lifesciences)
The presentation will take place today at 11:30am Eastern time (5:30pm CET) and the slides presented will be made available on Nordic Nanovector’s website (www.nordicnanovector.com) in the Investor Relations section.
About Nordic Nanovector:
Nordic Nanovector is a biotech company focusing on the development and commercialisation of novel targeted therapeutics in haematology and oncology. The Company’s lead clinical-stage product opportunity is Betalutin®, the first in a new class of Antibody-Radionuclide-Conjugates (ARC) designed to improve upon and complement current options for the treatment of non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL). NHL is an indication with substantial unmet medical need and orphan drug opportunities, representing a growing market worth over $12 billion by 2018.
Betalutin® comprises a tumour-seeking anti-CD37 antibody, lilotomab (previously referred to as HH1), conjugated to a low intensity radionuclide (lutetium-177). The preliminary data has shown promising efficacy and safety profile in an ongoing Phase 1/2 study in a difficult-to-treat NHL patient population. The Company is aiming at developing Betalutin® for the treatment of major types of NHL with first regulatory submission anticipated in 1H 2019.
Nordic Nanovector intends to retain marketing rights and to actively participate in the commercialisation of Betalutin® in core markets, while exploring potential distribution agreements in selected geographies. The Company is committed to developing its ARC pipeline to treat multiple selected cancer indications.
Further information about the Company can be found at www.nordicnanovector.com
This information is subject to the disclose requirements pursuant to section 5-12 of the Norwegian Securities Trading Act.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006518/en/