NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Steel Partners Holdings L.P. (SPLP), a diversified global holding company, today announced that API Group plc, its majority-owned indirect subsidiary, has completed the acquisition of the manufacturing assets and business of Amsterdam Metallized Products b.v. (“AMP”).
Based in the Netherlands, AMP is a leading global provider of packaging technologies for brand enhancement. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
“The addition of AMP’s business complements API Group and is in keeping with our corporate strategy of completing quality bolt-on acquisitions to expand existing operations,” said Warren Lichtenstein, Executive Chairman.
“AMP further strengthens API Group’s brand enhancement mission of utilizing high-end material substrates for luxury packaging and other niche markets, adding new products to API Group’s offerings and providing an entry point into new packaging sectors.”
About API Group plc www.apigroup.com
API Group plc, headquartered in Stockport, Cheshire, England, manufactures and distributes foils, laminates and holographic materials which provide exceptional brand enhancement for consumer goods and printed media worldwide. With roots in the British paper industry, the company’s reputation is founded on a trading history going back over a century. Operating from thirteen locations across Europe, America and Asia, API’s packaging solutions enable companies across a wide-range of industry sectors, including premium drinks, confectionery, tobacco, perfumery, personal-care, cosmetics and healthcare, to empower their brands on the shelf and in the hand.
About Steel Partners Holdings L.P. www.steelpartners.com
Steel Partners Holdings L.P. is a diversified global holding company that engages in multiple businesses through consolidated subsidiaries, associated companies and other interests. It owns and operates businesses and has significant interests in leading companies in various industries, including diversified industrial products, energy, defense, supply chain management and logistics, banking and youth sports.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that reflect Steel Partners’ current expectations and projections about its future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. Forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to Steel Partners and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause its actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities in 2016 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, Steel Partners’ subsidiaries need for additional financing and the terms and conditions of any financing that is consummated, their customers' acceptance of its new and existing products, the risk that the Company and its subsidiaries will not be able to compete successfully, the possible volatility of the Company's unit price and the potential fluctuation in its operating results. Although Steel Partners believes that the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable and achievable, any such statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the actual results will be consistent with the forward-looking statements. Investors should read carefully the factors described in the "Risk Factors" section of the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2016, for information regarding risk factors that could affect the Company's results. Except as otherwise required by federal securities laws, Steel Partners undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006446/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}