PLANO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CompuCom Systems, Inc. (“CompuCom®”), a leading technology infrastructure services company, today announced it has appointed Dan Stone as its new chief executive officer, effective November 28, 2016. Don Doctor, who has served as chief executive officer since January 2015, will serve on the company’s board of directors as executive chairman of the parent company board.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005986/en/ 
“Dan and I have been working closely together while he established and led CompuCom’s End-User Enablement business, and his strategic thinking, vision and focus on end users make him the perfect choice to lead the company,” noted Doctor. “I’m excited about Dan and the talented group of leaders we now have in place, and the direction they are taking the business.”
Stone previously served for two years as EVP and president, End-User Enablement, a core strength in CompuCom’s portfolio that helps IT executives manage the convergence of social interaction, mobility, Big Data and cloud – empowering end users as they interact with each other and their information.
“CompuCom is at an exciting time in its evolution and I’m proud to have the opportunity to lead our team,” said Stone. “Don has been instrumental in transforming the company over the past couple of years and bringing it to the place it is today, and I look forward to continuing that transformation.”
Prior to joining CompuCom, Stone served as president and general manager of Lenovo Latin America, a $3B business division, where he led 7,000 employees across 15 countries and two continents, and operated six vertically integrated manufacturing sites. Previously, he was the chief strategy officer at Lenovo, leading the development and implementation of global corporate strategy technology investments, strategic partnerships/alliances, as well as post-merger management activities across the globe.
Stone becomes chief executive officer as CompuCom increases its focus on helping companies around the world acquire, deploy and manage the technology and applications that their organizations require for development and service. The company is accelerating its presence in the automation space, with the planned acquisition of the IoT business of Extensys, a top provider of IoT solutions, and the integration of its core team. CompuCom also recently partnered with intelligent automation leader Arago to integrate Arago’s problem-solving artificial intelligence solution, HIRO™, into all of CompuCom’s managed services solutions for the data center – enabling incidents to be diagnosed and remediated more quickly, efficiently and with greater certainty.
The company also expanded its partnership with Intel to launch cloud-based managed services, making infrastructure management and managed security offerings affordable for organizations of any size.
About CompuCom
CompuCom Systems, Inc., a global company headquartered in Plano, Texas, provides IT managed services, infrastructure solutions, consulting and products to Fortune 1000 companies committed to enhancing their end users’ experience. Founded in 1987, privately held CompuCom employs approximately 11,500 associates. For more information, visit www.compucom.com.
© 2016 CompuCom Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. CompuCom is a registered trademark of CompuCom Systems, Inc.
Arago® is a registered trademark of Arago, and is used with permission.
Extensys® is a registered trademark of Extensys, Inc., and is used with permission.
Intel® is a registered trademark of Intel Corporation, and is used with permission.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005986/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005986/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}