DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Cartilage Repair/ Cartilage Regeneration Market by Treatment modalities (Chondrocyte Transplantation, Growth Factor Technology, Tissue Scaffolds, Cell-free composites), Application (Hyaline Cartilage, Fibrocartilage), Region - Forecast to 2021" report to their offering.
The Global Cartilage Repair/ Cartilage Regeneration Market is Projected to Reach USD 779.8 Million by 2021 from USD 414.6 Million in 2016 Growing at a CAGR of 13.5%.
The report provides a picture on cartilage repair/ cartilage regeneration products and therapies across different industry verticals and regions. It aims at estimating the market size and future growth potential of this market across different segments such as treatment modality, application, and regions. Furthermore, the report also includes an in-depth competitive analysis of the key players in the market along with their company profiles, recent developments, and key market strategies.
In this report, the cartilage repair/ cartilage regeneration market is segmented on the basis of treatment modalities, application, and region. Factors such as increase in obese population and rising incidence of sports injuries are the major factors driving the growth of cartilage repair/ cartilage regeneration market.
On the basis of treatment modalities, the market is segmented into cell based approaches and non-cell based approaches. Cell based approaches are further segmented into chondrocyte transplantation, growth factor technology, and stem cells. Non-cell based approaches are segmented into tissue scaffolds and cell-free composites. The cell based approaches segment is expected to account for the largest market share in 2016. The large share of this segment can be attributed to long-term results of these therapies in terms of cartilage repair.
Based on applications, the cartilage repair/ cartilage regeneration market is segmented into hyaline cartilage and fibrocartilage. The hyaline cartilage segment is expected to account for the largest market share in 2016. The large share of this segment can be attributed to the high prevalence of cartilage damage in hyaline cartilage.
The major players operating in the cartilage repair/ cartilage regeneration market include Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. (U.S.), Vericel Corporation (U.S.), Smith & Nephew plc (U.K.), Osiris Therapeutics, Inc. (U.S.), and Arthrex Inc. (U.S.).
Key Topics Covered:
1 Introduction
2 Research Methodology
3 Executive Summary
4 Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Market: Market Overview
5 Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Market, By Treatment Modalities
6 Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Market, By Application
7 Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Market, By Region
8 Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Market: Competitive Landscape
9 Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Market: Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/sncrxk/cartilage_repair

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005182/en/