NASHVILLE, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Sarah Cannon announced today that the American Society of Hematology (ASH) has selected more than 35 abstracts authored by members of the Sarah Cannon Blood Cancer Network to be presented at the 2016 ASH Meeting and Exposition in San Diego, Calif. from December 3-6. The meeting is the world’s leading event in malignant and non-malignant hematology research, bringing together more than 20,000 hematology & oncology professionals to discuss the latest breakthroughs in blood cancer treatment.
“Working together with leaders from across the Sarah Cannon Blood Cancer Network, we are advancing novel therapies for blood cancer patients,” said Howard A. “Skip” Burris III, MD, President, Clinical Operations and Chief Medical Officer at Sarah Cannon. “We look forward to sharing our research insights, including a greater understanding for the role of immunotherapies, from clinical trials across Sarah Cannon’s blood cancer programs.”
The abstracts represent studies being conducted by investigators from Sarah Cannon in collaboration with Colorado Blood Cancer Institute, Florida Cancer Specialists & Research Institute, Oklahoma University Medical Center, Tennessee Oncology and Texas Transplant Institute. A complete schedule of the presentations is available at sarahcannon.com/ASH.
“Our Blood Cancer Network brings together more than fifty experts who are collaborating to determine the best treatment options for patients,” Fred LeMaistre, MD, Physician in Chief of Blood Cancers at Sarah Cannon. “Focused on the highest level of quality standards, infrastructure, technology, training and research, the network is impacting patient outcomes on an international scale.”
The Sarah Cannon Blood Cancer Network is one of the largest providers of hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). It conducts more than 1,000 transplants annually through seven FACT accredited transplant centers, and has completed over 14,000 transplants since the inception of its first program.
About The Sarah Cannon Blood Cancer NetworkSarah Cannon brings together physician-led blood cancer programs across the United States and United Kingdom to offer patients convenient access to care including hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) and clinical trials. The Sarah Cannon Blood Cancer Network programs include St. David’s South Austin Medical Center in Austin, TX, Medical City Dallas Hospital in Dallas, TX, Colorado Blood Cancer Institute at Presbyterian/St. Luke’s Medical Center- HealthONE in Denver, Colo., HCA Midwest Health- Research Medical Center, in Kansas City, Mo., Sarah Cannon Center for Blood Cancer at TriStar Centennial Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn., Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans, La., OU Medical Center in Oklahoma City, Okla., Texas Transplant Institute at Methodist Hospital in San Antonio, TX, Harley Street at UCH in London and The Christie Clinic in Manchester, England. For more information about the Network and Sarah Cannon’s full suite of oncology services, visit sarahcannon.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201006080/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}