NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has affirmed LBJ Infrastructure Group, LLC's (LBJ) approximately $615 million senior lien revenue bonds series 2010 issued by the Texas Private Activity Bond (PAB) Surface Transportation Corporation and $850 million Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan at 'BBB-', with a Stable Outlook.
SUMMARY
The affirmations reflect the newly opened managed lanes (ML) project that is supported by its strategic location in a highly congested area north of Dallas and near the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport, which along with the solid economics of the service area, has benefited from considerable population and employment growth over the last decade. Regional macroeconomic demographics and development in the area are broadly in line with Fitch's expectations at closing and, despite somewhat slower than originally expected revenues reported in the first nine months of 2016, performance continues to support Fitch's rating case assumptions. Revenue risk is partially offset in the medium term by the flexibility afforded by the TIFIA loan structure and the project's strong liquidity position, currently over $90 million; however, an escalating debt structure that relies on revenue growth to meet debt service obligations has a constraining effect on the project's credit quality.
The ratings also reflect the lack of demand history and uncertainty associated with price sensitivity to increasing toll rates, as well as the inherent volatility and long-term forecast risk associated with ML projects.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
Revenue Risk - Volume: Midrange (Corridor Volume - Stronger, ML Characteristics - Weaker)
Congested Commuting Corridor: The facility is strategically located in a highly congested area north of Dallas and near Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. Continued population, and therefore traffic, growth in the area is widely expected over forthcoming years on top of the considerable population and employment growth experienced over the last decade. The corridor traffic has returned post construction, reportedly exceeding pre-construction demand levels. Demonstrated traffic congestion in both directions during weekday am and pm peak periods, weekday inter-peak, and weekend daytime supports the expectation of strong ratemaking ability. The price sensitivity to toll rates is uncertain given the highly demand-driven nature of toll rates. A tight free access policy is a project strength, although current ramp-up status constrains the ML characteristics assessment at "weaker."
Revenue Risk - Price: Midrange
Dynamic Pricing, Soft Cap: The project utilizes a dynamic pricing policy with flexibility to change tolls based on real-time traffic conditions. The comprehensive developer agreement allows for revenue maximization up to a soft cap on toll rates of $0.75 per mile (2009 dollars) and rates may only be increased beyond this level if the concessionaire is unable to manage ML speeds at or above 50 miles per hour, or if traffic volumes exceed pre-determined thresholds, implying a switch to throughput maximization at these levels. While the soft cap structure limits some of the concessionaire's pricing flexibility, it may also help offset some political risk regarding rate increases in a scenario of high congestion.
Infrastructure Renewal and Replacement: Stronger
Infrastructure Risk Well Mitigated: The project contains adequate mechanisms to assess and address infrastructure requirements on an ongoing basis through the life of the debt. The project company is required to fund capex needs from cash flow on a rolling five-year look forward basis. The 12-year tail after TIFIA debt maturity in 2050 provides additional financial flexibility to meet handback requirements and partially mitigates asset reinvestment needs.
Debt Structure: Midrange
Fixed Senior Debt with Flexible TIFIA Loan: Debt is all fixed rate with a back-loaded aggregate debt service schedule. The covenant package is adequate with a senior debt service reserve fund (DSRF) equal to 10% of par and an equity lockup trigger of 1.20x. The TIFIA structure includes considerable flexibility between scheduled and mandatory principal and interest payments. Still, the project is reliant on future revenue growth to support its escalating debt structure, which may be exacerbated by any necessary TIFIA scheduled debt service deferrals. In addition to the $61.5 million DSRF, a major maintenance reserve account (MMRA) of $20 million provides additional liquidity against revenue shortfalls in the early years of operation.
Moderate Financial Flexibility: Fitch's analysis at financial close indicated a loan life coverage ratio of 1.6x in 2015 and a minimum project life coverage ratio of 2.2x, with both growing over time - levels consistent with low investment-grade ML projects.
PEER GROUP
The closest peers from Fitch's rated portfolio include other ML facilities that are highly congested, particularly during peak hours such as the neighboring North Tarrant Express Segments 1&2 (NTE) and 95 Express Lanes LLC (95 Express), both of which are in the operations phase, and also serve areas with relatively strong demographic characteristics and limited alternative routes. Although still shy of stabilized traffic ML performance on both peers appears is encouraging. All three facilities are charging relatively high toll rates of over $0.50 per mile (real) in peak periods, with NTE and 95 Express charging well above that.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
Negative: Longer than expected ramp-up that stretches liquidity support, or post-ramp up traffic and revenue performance at or below Fitch's rating case on a sustained basis.
Positive: Sustained traffic and revenue performance materially above Fitch's base case that improves financial metrics.
CREDIT UPDATE
Performance Update
Approximately one year of traffic and revenue data is available, approximately halfway through the originally envisioned ramp-up period, but the length and extent of the ramp-up is still unknown. The data from the first year of operations is slightly better in revenue and expense terms than the sponsor's budget from April of 2016, though toll revenues have underperformed the Fitch's rating case. Macroeconomic regional development in the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area is broadly in line with Fitch's expectation at closing, and prospects for the requisite level of corridor congestion to yield the required project revenues once the road has ramped up remain unchanged.
Financial Performance
Fitch's original rating case from the new issue rating assumed a one year delay and full year revenues in 2017 of $86.9 million. Given the facility opened well in advance of Fitch's one year delay scenario, Fitch has analysed actual 2016 results to analyse future performance. Actual 2016 revenues as of the end of Q3 2016 were $54.4 million ($18.1 million/quarter) according to unaudited Quarterly Operations and Maintenance Reports from LBJ. Fitch expects full year 2016 revenues to be in excess of $70 million. While it is too early to fully estimate ramp-up through 2017, given Fitch's observations on other managed lanes projects, growth is expected to continue. To reach Fitch's rating case of $86.9 million in 2017, revenues have to increase between 20% and 25% 19.8%, which given the ramp up phase, would not be unreasonable. Operating expenses in the first three quarters of 2016 were $12.8 million, 26% lower than the Fitch Rating case of $17 million.
Operating Performance
The sponsor provided data from the week of September 19, 2016, which represented an average weekday, unaffected by abnormal weather, traffic flow or holidays. In addition LBJ provided Quarterly Operations and Maintenance Reports through Q3 2016. Performance analysis is based on this data set. The capture rate and number of transactions in the first full year of operations have underperformed expectations. However, average toll rates have been higher than anticipated, significantly outperforming the sponsor's forecasts at financial close.
The project was fully completed (all three segments) in September 2015 and the receipt of the Texas Department of Transportation (TX DOT) Substantial Completion Letter on September 10. This was approximately three months ahead of schedule on budget. The recently completed project includes the reconstruction of IH-635, including an eight lane general purpose freeway, a four-to-six-lane ML facility and a continuous two to three-lane frontage road system with access ramps, as well as construction of two, two-lane elevated direct connector MLs along IH-35E that will interface with the IH-635/IH-35E interchange direct connectors
Fitch Base and Rating Cases
Given the limited traffic and revenue data since opening and continued ramp-up expected over the next two to three years Fitch has not re-evaluated its medium and longer-term expectations to traffic, revenue and operations and resulting debt service coverage ratios and loan life coverage ratios. As Fitch continues to monitor traffic ramp-up and operations over the upcoming year Fitch will evaluate base and rating case traffic and revenue and provide more detailed analyses.
SECURITY
The bonds are secured by net toll revenues generated from the LBJ / I635 managed lanes project. The lien securing the TIFIA obligation is subordinated to the lien securing the PABs, except after a bankruptcy related event, after which the TIFIA loan will rank pari passu with the senior PABs.
Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com
Applicable Criteria
Rating Criteria for Infrastructure and Project Finance (pub. 08 Jul 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882594
Rating Criteria for Toll Roads, Bridges and Tunnels (pub. 11 Aug 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886038
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016068
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016068
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006372/en/