WALTHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Digital Guardian, a next generation data protection platform purpose built to stop data theft, today announced the Digital Guardian for Data Loss Prevention product has been selected as an Excellence Award finalist in the Best Data Loss Prevention (DLP) Solution category for the 2017 SC Awards. Finalists are recognized for outstanding leadership and for providing superior security products to the information security industry.
“Ransomware, nation-state cyber attacks, IoT vulnerabilities, data privacy issues and more are dominating the headlines right now and it’s critical that we amplify the importance of these problems and highlight the actions organizations can take to safeguard their organizations and their critical data assets,” said Illena Armstrong, VP, editorial, SC Media. “As bad actors are constantly changing strategy, so too are the men, women and companies endeavoring to stop them in their tracks. These finalists have shown that they are the best at what they do.”
“Professional Award finalists, epitomize the industry’s tireless efforts to protect valuable information from cyber criminals,” added Armstrong of SC Media. “We are proud to recognize Digital Guardian for their outstanding achievements and contributions to our industry.”
In addition, the Digital Guardian Managed Security Program was selected for the Best Managed Security Service in the Professional Award category of the SC Awards. Finalists are selected for showing exemplary professional leadership in information technology (IT) security.
“We are honored to be listed as finalists for two of SC Media’s prestigious award categories for the second year in a row,” said Ken Levine, president and chief executive officer, Digital Guardian. “Our engineering team has done an excellent job delivering an innovative and comprehensive product while our managed security professionals continues to provide the highest level of data protection to our customers.”
Winners will be announced at the SC Awards 2017 ceremony to be held February 14, 2017 in San Francisco.
The SC Awards, now in its 20th year, are recognized throughout the industry as the gold standard of accomplishment for cybersecurity professionals, products and services. Winners in the Professional Award category are selected by an expert panel of judges and recognize the most talented cybersecurity professionals from end-user companies. Judges conducted in-depth analysis and considered many factors – such as applicable research, analyst reports and/or product reviews – to narrow down the field of hundreds of submissions to just the top finalists.
Winners in the Excellence category are determined by an expert panel of judges, hand-picked by SC Media’s editorial team for their breadth of knowledge and experience in cybersecurity industry. The Excellence Award honors the professionals, products and services that have proven to be the best in the industry for protecting today’s corporate world from an array of risks and threats.
About SC Media
SC Media is cybersecurity. We've lived it for more than 25 years, sharing industry expert guidance and insight, in-depth features and timely news, and independent product reviews in various content forms in partnership with and for top-level information security executives and their technical teams.
SC Media arms information security professionals with the in-depth, unbiased business and technical information they need to tackle the countless security challenges they face and establish risk management and compliance postures that underpin overall business strategies. We deliver breaking news, comprehensive analysis, cutting-edge features, contributions from thought leaders, and the best, most extensive collection of product reviews in the business.
Whether through our comprehensive website, magazine, in-depth eBooks, newsletters, or regularly scheduled digital and live events - such as our SC Awards program, SC Media Roundtables or SC Congress Toronto, New York, Boston, Chicago, and London - our readers gain all the relevant information they need to safeguard their organizations and, ultimately, contribute to their longevity and success.
Friend us on Facebook! http://www.facebook.com/SCMag
Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/scmagazine
Nominations and event information:
Anna Naumoski, senior events coordinator
anna.naumoski@haymarketmedia.com
646.638.6015
About Digital Guardian
Digital Guardian is a next generation data protection platform purpose built to stop data theft. The Digital Guardian platform performs across the corporate network, traditional endpoints and servers, mobile devices and cloud applications to make it easier to see and stop all threats to sensitive data. For more than 10 years, it has enabled data-rich organizations to protect their most valuable assets with an on premise deployment or an outsourced managed security program (MSP). Digital Guardian’s unique data awareness and transformative visibility, combined with behavioral threat detection and response, enables you to protect data without slowing the pace of your business. To learn more please visit: https://digitalguardian.com/

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006238/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}