NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
BlackRock Enhanced Government Fund, Inc. (the “Fund”) (NYSE:EGF, CUSIP: 09255K108) today announced the completion of its annual offer to repurchase a portion of its outstanding shares of common stock from its stockholders (the “Repurchase Offer”).
Under the terms of the Repurchase Offer, the Fund offered to repurchase up to 10% of its outstanding shares of common stock (the “Shares”) for cash at a price equal to the Fund’s net asset value per Share calculated as of the close of business of the New York Stock Exchange on December 6, 2016 (subject to the repurchase fee of 2% of the net asset value per Share, which was deducted from the repurchase price (the “Repurchase Fee”)).
As previously announced on November 22, 2016, the expiration date of the Repurchase Offer, Computershare Trust Company, N.A., the Fund’s depositary agent, indicated that 4,997,098 Shares (approximately 69% of the Fund’s Shares outstanding as of November 22, 2016) were validly submitted for tender and not withdrawn. Since more than 10% of the Fund’s outstanding Shares were validly submitted for tender, the Fund repurchased validly tendered Shares on a pro rata basis. However, the Fund accepted all Shares validly submitted for tender by stockholders who owned, beneficially or of record, an aggregate of not more than 99 Shares and who validly tendered all of their Shares, before pro rating Shares validly tendered by others. Consequently, approximately 14.44% of Shares validly submitted for tender were accepted for repurchase.
On December 6, 2016, and subject to pro ration as applicable, validly tendered Shares were repurchased by the Fund at $13.95 per Share, the Fund’s net asset value per Share determined as of 4:00 p.m. EST, Tuesday, December 6, 2016 (subject to the Repurchase Fee).
The Fund is a diversified, closed-end management investment company. The Fund’s investment objective is to provide stockholders with current income and gains.
None of the Fund, its investment adviser or its Board of Directors made any recommendation to any stockholder as to whether to tender or refrain from tendering Shares in the Repurchase Offer.
For client-specific information regarding the Repurchase Offer, please contact your broker or financial advisor, or in the case of registered stockholders, Computershare Trust Company, N.A., which is acting as the depositary agent in connection with the Repurchase Offer.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is a global leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients. At September 30, 2016, BlackRock’s AUM was $5.1 trillion. BlackRock helps clients around the world meet their goals and overcome challenges with a range of products that include separate accounts, mutual funds, iShares® (exchange-traded funds), and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers risk management, advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of institutional investors through BlackRock Solutions®. As of September 30, 2016, the firm had approximately 13,000 employees in 30 countries and a major presence in global markets, including North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East and Africa. For additional information, please visit the Company’s website at www.blackrock.com | Twitter: @blackrock_news | Blog: www.blackrockblog.com | LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/blackrock
Availability of Fund Updates and Performance Data
BlackRock will update performance and certain other data for the BlackRock closed-end funds (the “Funds”) on a monthly basis on its website in the “Closed-end Funds” section of www.blackrock.com as well as certain other material information as necessary from time to time. Investors and others are advised to check the website for updated performance information and the release of other material information about the Funds. This reference to BlackRock’s website is intended to allow investors public access to information regarding the Funds and does not, and is not intended to, incorporate BlackRock’s website in this release.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock or a Fund may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to a Fund’s or BlackRock’s future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as “trend,” “potential,” “opportunity,” “pipeline,” “believe,” “comfortable,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “current,” “intention,” “estimate,” “position,” “assume,” “outlook,” “continue,” “remain,” “maintain,” “sustain,” “seek,” “achieve,” and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “may” or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
With respect to the Fund, the following factors, among others, could cause actual events to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, foreign exchange rates or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for the Funds or in a Fund’s net asset value; (2) the relative and absolute investment performance of a Fund and its investments; (3) the impact of increased competition; (4) the unfavorable resolution of any legal proceedings; (5) the extent and timing of any distributions or share repurchases; (6) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes; (7) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to a Fund or BlackRock, as applicable; (8) terrorist activities, international hostilities and natural disasters, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (9) BlackRock’s ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (10) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time; and (11) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions.
Annual and Semi-Annual Reports and other regulatory filings of the Funds with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on BlackRock’s website at www.blackrock.com, and may discuss these or other factors that affect the Funds. The information contained on BlackRock’s website is not a part of this press release.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006506/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}