ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Atlantic Capital Bank, NA has announced the hiring of Cory Burdette as Senior Vice President of its Financial Institutions Group (FIG). He brings 10 years of extensive banking experience working with community and middle market financial institutions. Prior to joining Atlantic Capital, Mr. Burdette worked with BBVA Compass as Vice President, Correspondent Banking Relationship Manager and J. P. Morgan as Vice President, Treasury Sales Officer.
“Cory’s extensive experience and diverse background with community and middle market financial institutions will reinforce our objective to grow deposits and expand service delivery to our clients. His market knowledge is a true asset and fits perfectly with our vision to deliver this expertise to community banks across the United States. We are delighted to have him join our team,” said Kurt Shreiner, Executive Vice President, Atlantic Capital Bank, NA, a subsidiary of Atlantic Capital Bancshares, Inc.
“I believe the biggest differentiator in community banking is customer service. Clients want a long-term financial partner who will listen and provide customized solutions that meet their business goals. That’s the approach I bring for Atlantic Capital clients. I am excited about delivering superior customer service and products that exceed expectations,” said Cory Burdette, Senior Vice President, Financial Institutions Group.
Mr. Burdette received his B. S. in Business Administration with a focus on Marketing and Management from Georgia College and State University.
He is located at Atlantic Capital Bank, Terminus 100, 3280 Peachtree Rd. in Atlanta. He can be reached at Cory.Burdette@atlcapbank.com or 770-855-3190.
About Atlantic Capital Bank, NAAtlantic Capital Bank, NA is a subsidiary of Atlantic Capital Bancshares, Inc. which is a $2.8 billion publicly traded bank holding company headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Atlantic Capital offers banking, treasury management, capital markets, trust, and mortgage services to privately held companies and individuals in Atlanta, eastern Tennessee, northwest Georgia and Charlotte, N.C. Atlantic Capital also provides specialized financial services to select clients nationally. For more information, visit our website at www.atlcapbank.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005789/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}