SANTA BARBARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
QAD Inc. (QADA) (QADB), a leading provider of enterprise software and services for global manufacturing companies, today announced four new members for its QAD Global Partner Network. The QAD Global Partner Network includes channel partners, technology partners, solution partners and consulting partners that work with QAD to provide a wide range of sales, support, complementary solutions and services to QAD customers around the world.
“Our partners are crucial to our customers’ success,” said Tracy Doyle, QAD director, alliances. “We therefore evaluate partner prospects and select those that maximize our customer’s performance and overall experience with QAD. Finding the right fit and focus are crucial to partner selection. I am confident that these four companies will add needed capabilities to the QAD Global Partner Network."
QAD’s New Partners
QAD works with its partners to better service companies across the world. QAD partners provide breadth, depth and reach, strategically extending QAD’s capabilities, functional expertise and global presence. The QAD Global Partner Network includes over 100 partners including hardware platform manufacturers, operating system vendors, software and database developers, solution resellers, system integrators and service organizations.
About QAD – The Effective Enterprise
QAD Inc. (QADA) (QADB) is a leading provider of enterprise software and services designed for global manufacturing companies. For more than 35 years, QAD has provided global manufacturing companies with QAD Enterprise Applications, an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system that supports operational requirements, including financials, manufacturing, demand and supply chain planning, customer management, business intelligence and business process management. QAD Enterprise Applications is offered in flexible deployment models in the cloud, on-premise or in a blended environment. With QAD, customers and partners in the automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, high technology, industrial products and life sciences industries can better align daily operations with their strategic goals to meet their vision of becoming more Effective Enterprises.
For more information about QAD, call +1 805-566-6000, visit www.qad.com.
“QAD” is a registered trademark of QAD Inc. All other products or company names herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Note to Investors: This press release contains certain forward-looking statements made under the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements regarding projections of revenue, income and loss, capital expenditures, plans and objectives of management regarding the Company’s business, future economic performance or any of the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current expectations. Words such as “expects,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “could,” “will likely result,” “estimates,” “intends,” “may,” “projects,” “should,” “would,” “might,” “plan” and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These risks include, but are not limited to: risks associated with our cloud service offerings, such as defects and disruptions in our services, our ability to properly manage our cloud service offerings, our reliance on third-party hosting and other service providers, and our exposure to liability and loss from security breaches; demand for the company's products, including cloud service, licenses, services and maintenance; pressure to make concessions on our pricing and changes in our pricing models; protection of our intellectual property; dependence on third-party suppliers and other third-party relationships, such as sales, services and marketing channels; changes in our revenue, earnings, operating expenses and margins; the reliability of our financial forecasts and estimates of the costs and benefits of transactions; the ability to leverage changes in technology; defects in our software products and services; third-party opinions about the company; competition in our industry; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; delays in sales; timely and effective integration of newly acquired businesses; economic conditions in our vertical markets and worldwide; exchange rate fluctuations; and the global political environment. For a more detailed description of the risk factors associated with the company and factors that may affect our forward-looking statements, please refer to the company's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the section entitled “Risk Factors” therein, and in other periodic reports the company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission thereafter. Management does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as required by law.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005059/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}