NEW DELHI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Vyome Biosciences, a clinical-stage specialty biopharmaceutical company developing novel medicines for treating skin diseases caused by resistant microbes, presented two posters at the Re-Entering Antibacterial Discovery and Development Summit 2016 in Boston. The first poster details how its Dual Action Rational Therapeutics (DARTs) technology-based novel drug candidates may have the potential to bypass and/or suppress antibiotic resistance for severe antibiotic-resistant infections caused by orthopedic implants caused by S. epidermidis, a skin opportunist pathogen. The second poster details the potential of Vyome’s library of novel antibiotics currently in development for skin opportunist pathogens, and their low propensity to develop antibiotic resistance.
Vyome’s patented DARTs technology has the potential to improve treatment of antibiotic-resistant infections from skin opportunist pathogens that occur during orthopedic surgeries. Systemic antibiotics may be ineffective in treating implant-related bone infections from opportunistic pathogens during accident-associated or elective orthopedic surgeries. Local antibiotic therapies, which are loaded into bone cements, are also limited in efficacy due to poor drug penetration through the bone, emergence of multi-drug resistant pathogens and formation of bacterial biofilms. The company presented, “Development of a New Generation Antibiotic for the Treatment of Orthopedic Implant-Associated Infections Caused by Skin Opportunist Pathogens” during a poster session this week.
“The rapid appearance and growth of resistant bacterial strains has far reaching implications on public health around the world, and there is an immediate need for additional, more effective treatment options for infections caused by skin opportunist pathogens,” said Venkateswarlu Nelabhotla (N. Venkat), Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Vyome Biosciences. “Where currently available systemic and locally administered antibiotics fail, our multi-action DARTs platform has the potential to achieve a high level of efficacy while minimizing the risk of emerging resistance,” remarked Dr. Shiladitya Sengupta, Co-Founder & Board Member, Vyome Biosciences.
As antibiotic resistant strains of both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria become more prevalent across many areas of care, Vyome aims to address this large unmet need by developing a library of Dual Action Rational Therapeutics technology platform based novel compounds by utilizing a rational structure-based drug design to generate new antibiotics which have multi-mode action to bypass and/or suppress antibiotic resistance. Vyome aims to develop and leverage only molecules with potent bactericidal activity against resistant strains, low propensity in emergence of resistance, a demonstrable ability to disrupt biofilms, and the exhibition of anti-inflammatory properties as the path forward in treating local/topical infections caused by antibiotic resistant skin opportunist pathogens. The company presented a study, “Development of a Library of Novel Antibiotics with Low Propensity to Develop Resistance” at the summit this week.
About Vyome Biosciences
Vyome Biosciences is an innovation-driven, clinical stage specialty bio-pharmaceutical company, which has novel platform technologies and a deep pipeline that addresses drug-resistant skin opportunistic pathogens such as antibiotic resistant acne. Vyome’s lead program VB 1953, which targets the unmet need of antibiotic resistant acne, is currently under evaluation in U.S. FDA Phase 1 clinical studies. Vyome also has a deep pipeline of preclinical new chemical entities, unique in their ability to overcome the development of resistance based on patented Dual Action Rational Therapeutics (DARTs) technology. In addition, Vyome has developed clinically proven antifungal products based on an innovative technology platform, Molecular Replacement Therapy (MRT™). Vyome has assembled a world-class team of scientific experts from India and the United States who have a track record of conducting scientific research, developing breakthrough products and building sustainable businesses. More information is available at http://www.vyome.in

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005837/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}