PITTSBURGH & MANSFIELD, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Evoqua Water Technologies has been selected to provide a Dystor® Dual Membrane Gas Holder System to the city of Mansfield, OH as part of its Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Upgrade Project. Evoqua worked closely with its sales partner BissNuss Inc., on the project.
The City of Mansfield WWTP was looking to replace one of its anaerobic digester covers, an old steel cover which had stopped functioning and was no longer storing gas. Evoqua was contacted to assess the application and provide a potential solution. The Dystor Dual Membrane Gas Holder System was selected due to its ability to maximize storage of methane gas and as a result of a recent successful installation with consulting engineer, Jones & Henry.
Evoqua’s Municipal Products and Services division will replace the 77.5-ft secondary digester steel gas holder cover with a Dystor Dual Membrane Gas Holder System. The Dystor system consists of an outer membrane that remains inflated in a fixed position, while the inner membrane moves freely as it stores or releases biogas. The Dystor system can hold up to six times as much gas as conventional steel digester covers, maximizing the energy benefits of the anaerobic digestion process and providing significant cost savings.
Evoqua recently celebrated 30 years of providing high performance Dystor Dual Membrane Gas Holder Systems through its Envirex™ family of products. For more information, visit www.evoqua.com/envirex.
About Evoqua
Evoqua Water Technologies is the global leader in helping municipalities and industrial customers protect and improve the world’s most fundamental natural resource: water. Evoqua has a more than 100-year heritage of transforming water and wastewater through innovation and industry firsts, market-leading expertise, and unmatched customer service. Its cost-effective and reliable treatment systems and services ensure uninterrupted quantity and quality of water, enable regulatory and environmental compliance, increase efficiency through water reuse, and prepare customers for next-generation demands. Evoqua’s unparalleled portfolio of proven brands, advanced technologies, mobile and emergency water supply solutions and service helps cities across the world provide and discharge clean water, and enable leisure and commercial industry to maximize productivity and profitability. For more information, visit www.evoqua.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005005/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}