AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
ProperCare, expert advocates for aging adults, today announced they are partnering with Seton Healthcare Family to launch a care management pilot program to assist aging adults. This patient advocacy program aims to give families and aging patients peace of mind by helping with safe transitions home from the hospital, equipping patients with the resources and support needed to recuperate at home. ProperCare also expects to improve patient satisfaction by helping patients take full advantage of commonly underused Medicare benefits and community resources, at no cost to the patient.
ProperCare will utilize Seton’s clinically integrated network providers, which includes skilled nursing facilities and rehabs, home health and hospice to optimize their services post discharge. The cornerstone of the program will consist of eight care management touch points to be carried out through an elite team of multi-disciplined care professionals.
“We’re looking forward to working with Seton to identify the most vulnerable of their elderly patient population and provide care management services that help them recover to their full capacity at home,” said Bill Wagenbaur, executive vice president and director of post-acute transitions at ProperCare. “Many times, elderly patients don’t have the support they need. We serve as surrogate family members to advocate for them and ensure they have the best possible care plan in place.”
ProperCare begins this partnership at three Seton hospitals: Seton Northwest, Seton Hays County, and Seton Williamson County. The program aims to provide services for 400 patients within six months and then expand its outreach to more patients as the program grows.
“Seton is excited to be a part of this innovative geriatric initiative pilot program with ProperCare,” said Whitney Power, trendwatcher and communication strategist for Seton Healthcare Family. “We are thrilled to be able to enhance and improve our patients’ experience with this groundbreaking program.”
About ProperCare
Founded in 2007, ProperCare offers aging adults and their families thoughtful solutions based on extensive experience and an objective perspective. They are a team of leaders and experts in providing a multi-disciplinary care management approach. ProperCare acts as a surrogate family member and serves as the primary communications hub with the goal of providing peace of mind for their clientele. For more information, please visit the website at proper-care.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005497/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}