LAKELAND, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Publix Super Markets is collaborating with Nemours Children’s Health System to enhance and expand outpatient retail pharmacy services at Nemours Children’s Hospital in Orlando’s Lake Nona Medical City. The newly enhanced pharmacy, which opened today, offers specialized convenience to children and their families, visitors, guests and health system employees on an outpatient basis.
“Nemours is always looking for ways to improve the experience of our patient families, and our new retail pharmacy from Publix will do just that,” said Dana Nicholson Bledsoe, president of Nemours Children’s Hospital. “With expanded hours and more locations for refills, we expect this new collaboration to make life easier for those who rely on us.”
Publix Pharmacies have been dedicated to the health and wellness needs of our customers and their families,” said Fred Ottolino, Publix vice president of pharmacy operations. “The opportunity to bring our level of customer care to the children at Nemours Children’s Hospital not only allows us to meet their immediate needs but also to build long-term relationships with our customers as they return home.”
The Publix Pharmacy at Nemours Children’s Hospital will bring many enhancements to the children and guests including:
Publix operates four additional pharmacies within hospital systems including Nicklaus Children’s Hospital in Miami, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Moffitt McKinley Campus both located in Tampa, Florida, and one within Lakeland Regional Medical Center in Lakeland, Florida.
About Nemours Children’s Hospital
Nemours (NAH-mors) is an internationally recognized children’s health system that owns and operates the Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children in Wilmington, Del., and the Nemours Children’s Hospital in Orlando, along with major pediatric specialty clinics in Delaware, Florida, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Established as The Nemours Foundation through the legacy and philanthropy of Alfred I. duPont, Nemours offers pediatric clinical care, research, education, advocacy and prevention programs to all families in the communities it serves. For more information, visit Nemours.org.
About Publix
Publix is privately owned and operated by its 187,500 employees, with 2015 sales of $32.4 billion. Currently Publix has 1,134 stores in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina and North Carolina. The company has been named one of Fortune’s “100 Best Companies to Work For in America” for 19 consecutive years. In addition, Publix’s dedication to superior quality and customer service is recognized among the top in the grocery business. For more information, visit the company’s website, corporate.publix.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005765/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}