DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Wood Vinegar Market Size, Share, Development, Growth and Demand Forecast to 2023" report to their offering.
The global wood vinegar market is valued at $3.2 million in 2015, and it is expected to grow at a CAGR of 7.1% during 2016-2023. The improved crop yield due to the usage of wood vinegar, increased government initiatives to promote the usage of bio-based products, and its waste management potential are driving the growth of the global wood vinegar market. Asia-Pacific accounted for the largest share in the global wood vinegar market in 2015, in terms of value and volume.
Wood Vinegar, also called pyroligneous acid or liquid smoke, is a byproduct of charcoal or biochar production. It is a dark liquid obtained through carbonization, which occurs upon heating of biomass in an airless container. The exhaust smoke from this charcoal production is cooled into liquid, and further separated into wood vinegar, tar, and bio-oil. Wood vinegar contains 80%-90% water, along with more than 200 organic compounds, such as ester, phenol, acetic acid, methanol, ketone, and formic acid. The main components of wood vinegar are acetic acid, methanol, and acetone.
Some of the major players operating in the global wood vinegar market are Ace (Singapore) Pte Ltd., TAGROW CO. LTD., Byron Biochar, Canada Renewable Bioenergy Corporation, NAKASHIMA TRADING CO. LTD., Nettenergy B.V., and Taiko Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Research Scope & Methodology
2. Executive Summary
3. Market Outlook
4. Global Wood Vinegar Market Size And Forecast (2013-2023)
5. Global Wood Vinegar Market, By Geography
6. Economic Analysis Of Wood Vinegar Market
7. Competitive Positioning Analysis
8. Company Profiles And Strategic Developments
9. Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/9x9rkf/global_wood

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005892/en/