STOCKHOLM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Regulatory News:
Atlas Copco (ATCOA.ST) (STO:ATCOB), a leading supplier of sustainable productivity solutions, has appointed Helena Hedblom as President for the Mining and Rock Excavation Technique business area, starting January 1, 2017. She is currently President of the Rock Drilling Tools division in the same business area. Helena Hedblom will be a member of Atlas Copco’s Group Management.
“Helena is a proven leader with a solid understanding of the mining business,” said Ronnie Leten, President and CEO of the Atlas Copco Group. “I am confident that she will continue to develop the business area and build an even stronger global position.”
Helena Hedblom started her Atlas Copco career in 2000 as Manager Materials Development Research & Development in the Rock Drilling Tools division. She has since then had different roles including Lean coordinator and Vice President Research & Development in that division. Before she became President of the Rock Drilling Tools division based in Sweden in 2013 she was General Manager for the product company Atlas Copco Secoroc.
Helena Hedblom, born 1973, is a Swedish citizen. She has a Master of Science in Material Technology from the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden.
Helena Hedblom will be based in Örebro, Sweden. She replaces Johan Halling, who will retire.
This information is information that Atlas Copco AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the contact person set out above, at 8.30 am CET on December 1, 2016.
Atlas Copco is a world-leading provider of sustainable productivity solutions. The Group serves customers with innovative compressors, vacuum solutions and air treatment systems, construction and mining equipment, power tools and assembly systems. Atlas Copco develops products and services focused on productivity, energy efficiency, safety and ergonomics. The company was founded in 1873, is based in Stockholm, Sweden, and has a global reach spanning more than 180 countries. In 2015, Atlas Copco had revenues of BSEK 102 (BEUR 11) and more than 43 000 employees. Learn more at www.atlascopcogroup.com (http://www.atlascopco.com).
Atlas Copco’s Mining and Rock Excavation Technique business area provides equipment for drilling and rock excavation, a complete range of related consumables and service through a global network. The business area innovates for sustainable productivity in surface and underground mining, infrastructure, civil works, well drilling and geotechnical applications. Principal product development and manufacturing units are located in Sweden, the United States, Canada, China and India.
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006536/en/