DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "High Temperature Resin Market by Type (Epoxy, Silicone, Acrylic, Polyester, Polyethersulfone, Alkyd, Polyurethane, Phenolic, Polyetheramide), Appication (Adhesives & Sealants, Paints & Coatings, Composites), and Region - Global Forecast to 2026" report to their offering.
The global high temperature resin market is estimated to reach USD 4.88 billion by 2026, at a CAGR of 4.44% from 2016 to 2026
The increasing demand for high temperature resin as an alternative to mechanical fasteners in high end applications, growth in application areas, the increasing demand for high temperature composite resins in railway and aerospace interior applications, and the increasing demand for thermoplastic resins in composite applications is driving the global high temperature resin market. The higher cost of high temperature composites, issues related to recycling of high temperature thermosetting resins, and regulations related to the use of hazardous chemicals, are restraining the growth of the global high temperature resin market.
The demand for high temperature silicone resin in the high temperature resin market is growing at the highest rate, as it has the inherent ability to withstand extended exposure to higher temperatures than most other adhesives & sealants, paints & coatings, and composite chemistries. This aspect has made it the primary choice for under hood automotive applications. It can also be applied in thicker films, making it useful as a vibration dampening/isolation tool, if the coated assembly is to be placed in a high vibration environment. The high temperature silicone resin can withstand temperatures up to 1000°F (538°C), depending upon the end-use industry.
The Asia-Pacific is the fastest-growing region for the high temperature adhesives. The high demand in emerging countries, such as China, India, Korea, Malaysia, and Vietnam, is driving the global adhesives market. This growth stems from a rise in the demand for high-performance, high-quality high temperature adhesives from end-user segments such as electrical & electronics, automotive, aerospace, and other products. In addition, the carpentry & construction, and assembly & transport industries are also witnessing a growing demand for adhesives.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Introduction
2 Research Methodology
3 Executive Summary
4 Premium Insights
5 Market Overview
6 Industry Trends
7 Patent Details
8 High Temperature Resin Market, By Type
9 High Temperature Resin Market, By Application
10 High Temperature Resin Market, By Region
11 Competitive Landscape
12 Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/mkvmb4/high_temperature

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005209/en/