CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Navigant (NCI) proudly announced that it received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) workplace equality, administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Navigant earned a perfect score on the CEI for the eighth year in a row.
“Navigant’s commitment to diversity, respect, and inclusion is rooted in our core values and the expectations our employees have of each other,” said Julie Howard, chairman and chief executive officer, Navigant. “The company will continue to embrace diversity, ensuring that Navigant remains a safe, vibrant, and respected employer of choice for LGBT professionals around the world.”
In 2016, Navigant continued to create awareness, understanding, and an appreciation for its progressive work environment through a variety of programs championed by the company’s Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Allies (LGBTA) Employee Resource Group including webinars, sponsorships, and community outreach.
“I am proud that Navigant remains committed to exemplary diversity and inclusion standards,” said Steve Huffines, director within Navigant’s Transaction Advisory Services practice and co-chair of the firm’s LGBTA Employee Resource Group. “In today’s business community, celebrating the breadth of diversity among our peers, clients, and communities is critical to success. Navigant continues to be at the forefront of creating and maintaining an educated and inclusive working environment.”
The 2017 CEI rated 1,043 businesses in the report, which evaluates LGBT-related policies and practices including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive healthcare benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the LGBT community. Navigant’s efforts in satisfying all of the CEI’s criteria resulted in a 100 percent ranking and the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality.
For more information on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index, or to download a free copy of the report, visit www.hrc.org/cei.
The Human Rights Campaign Foundation is the educational arm of America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender and queer people. HRC envisions a world where LGBTQ people are embraced as full members of society at home, at work and in every community.
About Navigant
Navigant Consulting, Inc. (NCI) is a specialized, global professional services firm that helps clients take control of their future. Navigant’s professionals apply deep industry knowledge, substantive technical expertise, and an enterprising approach to help clients build, manage, and/or protect their business interests. With a focus on markets and clients facing transformational change and significant regulatory or legal pressures, the firm primarily serves clients in the healthcare, energy, and financial services industries. Across a range of advisory, consulting, outsourcing, and technology/analytics services, Navigant’s practitioners bring sharp insight that pinpoints opportunities and delivers powerful results. More information about Navigant can be found at navigant.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005317/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}