SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Prime Now, Amazon’s superfast one- and two-hour delivery service, today announced data showing what its customers need in superfast speeds as the busy holiday shopping season only has a few weeks left. Customers using Prime Now last holiday created a spike in orders of board games, top electronics such as Kindle devices and Amazon Echo, and holiday gift wrap through the service in December.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005370/en/ 
“Prime Now is the ultimate procrastinator’s tool to be able to get items you want and need right to your door at superfast speeds and we’ll be delivering right up until midnight on Dec. 24 for customers,” said Stephenie Landry, worldwide vice president of Prime Now. “Whether it is gift wrap, a toy or grocery items, customers can expect that we’ll be well stocked with local best-sellers and ready to deliver miracles to last minute shoppers this holiday.”
Since launching in Manhattan three holidays ago, Prime Now has expanded to more than 30 cities across the U.S. In select cities, the service offers ultra-fast delivery from local stores, popular restaurants as well as delivery of beer, wine and spirits. In two years, Prime Now has grown its one-hour delivery service to include more than 20 local stores such as the nation’s oldest family-owned drugstore, Bartell Drugs in Seattle, beloved grocer Sprouts in multiple cities, and pet supply store All The Best in Seattle. Prime Now also delivers alcohol in six U.S. cities and meals from thousands of popular restaurants in more than 20 cities.
A Look at the Impatient Holiday Shopper
According to Prime Now shopping data from last holiday, the most in-demand products changed dramatically in December thanks to impatient holiday shoppers. Here’s a look at the top trends that emerged:
Early December:
Christmas Week:
You can learn more about new service offerings and holiday sales trends from Prime Now in the accompanying infographic.
Prime Now is offered exclusively to Prime members in Atlanta, Austin, Baltimore, Chicago, Cincinnati, Columbus, Dallas/Fort Worth, Houston, Indianapolis, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Manhattan/Brooklyn, Miami, Minneapolis, Nashville, Orange County, Orlando, Phoenix, Portland, Raleigh, Richmond, Sacramento, San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco Bay Area, Seattle, Tampa, Virginia Beach, and Washington, D.C. metro. Through Prime Now, one-hour delivery is $7.99 and two-hour delivery is free. To learn more about Prime Now, visit www.amazon.com/primenow.
About Amazon
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005370/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005370/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}