NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Citi today announced new functionality for the Citi Mobile App® for iPhone® that combines banking, wealth management and money movement capabilities and offers a suite of cutting edge servicing and authentication features. The app capabilities were developed by Citi FinTech, a unit within Citi’s Global Consumer Bank charged with accelerating speed to market with next generation mobile banking capabilities.
“Citi FinTech’s new product breaks ground on two fronts,” said Stephen Bird, CEO, Global Consumer Banking at Citi. “First, it delivers a new custom designed mobile experience for Citigold clients that is among the first to integrate banking, investing and money movement in the palm of your hand. Second, it demonstrates the power and potential of our new agile operating model, a spearhead to leading what’s next for our clients and for Citi.”
Tailored for U.S. Citigold clients, the new Citigold experience on the Citi Mobile App® for iPhone® includes:
In addition, the app offers a curated experience, including an enhanced design as well as user-friendly language and mobile friendly screen flows. The new mobile features will expand to additional clients and markets over time.
“We set out to solve for our clients’ more complex financial and investment needs first which is why many new features are tailored to Citigold clients,” said Yolande Piazza, Chief Operating Officer at Citi FinTech. “Utilizing an agile operating model, the team was able to design, build and deliver in months what previously would have taken years to do. We co-created this product with our clients and deeply appreciate their time and input. We will monitor engagement and feedback, improve in real-time and then expand to more clients and markets.”
After engaging approximately 2,500 clients over a five month period to refine design and prioritize capabilities based on client need, Citi FinTech built features in a series of two-week development sprints, accelerating speed to market with a product that can be modified in real time and adjusted for different client needs and markets.
“We tested one to one with thousands of clients, incorporating their feedback and preferences so we could build the right functionality, streamline design and make the experience intuitive,” said Carey Kolaja, Global Head of Product at Citi FinTech. “Our goal is to put the power of FinTech at our clients’ fingertips to simplify how they bank and invest and make their experience better, faster and easier.”
The new Citigold experience for the Citi Mobile App® for iPhone® was built using an agile operating model and rapid prototyping. Through open architecture and the innovative use of APIs, it allows for additional fast-follow features in the months ahead.
The new mobile app capabilities complement the recent introduction of an enhanced Citigold experience in the U.S., offering clients a personalized, tailored level of service, exclusive benefits and the world-class investment capabilities of Citi Personal Wealth Management. They follow additional mobile app enhancements, including dispute resolution functionality for credit cardmembers, in-app replacement card tracking, Citi Quick Lock (ability to lock the account if card is misplaced or stolen) as well as Online Debit Card Activation via mobile browser.
About Citi
Citi, the leading global bank, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management.
Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com | Twitter: @Citi | YouTube: www.youtube.com/citi | Blog: http://blog.citigroup.com | Facebook: www.facebook.com/citi | LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/citi
© 2015 Citigroup Inc. Citi and Citibank and Arc Design are registered service marks of Citigroup Inc.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005349/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}