CENTENNIAL, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Arrow Electronics, Inc. (ARW) today announced a new agreement with Vodafone, a global market leader for cellular network services and managed internet of things (IoT) connectivity. Arrow will market Vodafone’s IoT services as part of its eVolve IoT offering.
The Arrow eVolve offering is a comprehensive framework enabling businesses to globally deploy, manage, monitor, analyze and monetize secure connected devices throughout their entire lifecycle. This cooperation with Vodafone extends the services offering with managed data connectivity solutions that Arrow can now provide to its extensive global customer base. With the rapid growth of applications and services requiring IoT connectivity, Vodafone’s established capabilities, networks and services will offer customers secure connectivity with scalability and performance to address business needs today and in the future.
The combination of Arrow and Vodafone solutions creates a compelling offering with global network coverage, wireless and embedded edge technology, system integration, data platform and cloud integration, enterprise computing, IoT edge device connectivity and application enablement for millions of connected devices. The agreement will allow Arrow to market and resell network services tailored for customer applications. An example of this is the availability of 2G low data rate SIM connectivity for M2M applications.
“Vodafone’s solutions and services expand and enhance Arrow’s go-to-market strategy in the fast-growing market segments within IoT. Our extensive IoT technology solutions stack and professional services are now complemented with differentiated network services from a global leader,” said Aiden Mitchell, vice president of IoT Solutions at Arrow.
Vodafone Director of IoT Ivo Rook added, “The ecosystem around IoT is going to be critical to the long term success of the technology. I believe that this kind of relationship with Arrow will lead to ongoing success for both organizations and the market more widely.”
About Arrow Electronics
Arrow Electronics is a global provider of products, services and solutions to industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise computing solutions. Arrow serves as a supply channel partner for more than 100,000 original equipment manufacturers, contract manufacturers and commercial customers through a global network of more than 460 locations serving over 85 countries. Learn more at www.fiveyearsout.com.
About Vodafone Group
Vodafone is one of the world’s largest telecommunications companies and provides a range of services including voice, messaging, data and fixed communications. Vodafone has mobile operations in 26 countries, partners with mobile networks in 49 more, and fixed broadband operations in 17 markets. As of 30 September 2016, Vodafone had 470 million mobile customers and 14 million fixed broadband customers. For more information, please visit: www.vodafone.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005952/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}