MADISON, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
In the healthcare industry, which is expected to grow more than $2 billion in national health expenditures, managing the pressure to reduce cost and align with population health, strategic growth and alignment is critical. ERDMAN is focusing on just that for its healthcare clients, welcoming Dr. Scott Cullen as Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer to grow its Healthcare Strategy practice.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005506/en/ 
Cullen will further build ERDMAN’s Healthcare Advance Planning and Advisory expertise. ERDMAN’s current Advance Planning services for our clients include market strategy and competitive analysis, ambulatory network development, facility and capital planning, current and forecasted utilization analysis, and operational and experiential planning.
Previously, Cullen was President, Advisory Services and Strategic Operations for Valence Health, where he developed and led value-based care strategies to assist hospitals, health systems, and physicians to more effectively manage patient populations and help them achieve clinical and financial outcomes. Cullen started his career in health care as a founding partner in a family practice group, and has since grown to advising physician and healthcare leaders how to efficiently and effectively grow and evolve in today’s healthcare challenges. “I am thrilled to be joining the ERDMAN team. I believe that ERDMAN is uniquely positioned to guide health systems to become the population health managers that they will need to become, in order to be successful in an increasingly competitive environment,” says Cullen.
“I am excited to have Scott join our Company and be a key member of my Executive Team,” says Brian Happ, President and CEO. “Scott not only has the experience and track record to grow and expand our consulting services, he shares in the values and leadership qualities that makes ERDMAN unique in the marketplace. He is a great addition to our team.”
About ERDMAN
At ERDMANSM, we believe that the questions of new service offerings, population health, patient experience, new care models, and facilities are not separate, isolated challenges. We believe that by looking at these challenges through multiple perspectives simultaneously, we come up with more effective and efficient solutions. Through our Integrative Thinking, we take on the complex challenges of healthcare to help our clients build healthier communities. www.erdman.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005506/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005506/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}