RWE AG and EON SE surged after Germany’s top court ruled they are entitled to compensation for power-production rights they lost because of the country’s decision to exit from nuclear energy.
Vattenfall AB is also exceptionally entitled to the constitutional complaint, even though it’s fully owned by a foreign government, according to judges at the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe. The companies can now sue for compensation in civil court.
Their cases center on Germany’s nuclear policy, which has flip-flopped with political changes and concerns after the 2011 Fukushima disaster in Japan. EON had said it would seek about 8 billion euros ($8.6 billion) in compensation in case of a win. Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen has said the industry accepts the political decision taken by Germany, but must fight off the costs to be unilaterally dumped on the utilities.
More from Bloomberg.com: Putin Shows Off Russia's Embarrassing Aircraft Carrier
The 2011 law “lacks rules on compensation insofar as residual electricity quantity allocated in 2002 can’t be consumed any longer and for possibly frustrated investments between December 2010 and March 2011,” Presiding Judge Ferdinand Kirchhof said when delivering the ruling.
RWE shares jumped as much as 6.3 percent to 12.48 euros and traded 4.2 percent higher as of 10:35 a.m. in Frankfurt. EON surged as much as 6.9 percent and was up 5.4 percent to 6.47 euros.
The court rejected the plaintiffs’ claim that the government’s 2011 decision amounted to expropriation of the utilities property.
In 2002, the nation’s ruling coalition, composed of Social Democrats and Greens, decided to end nuclear energy production and reached a deal to allow the companies to produce an amount of power equivalent to 32 years of generation by existing plants.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump’s ‘Retribution’ Tax Stirs Questions, GOP Resistance
After the 2009 elections, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government changed direction. At the end of 2010, the utilities were given new production rights equivalent to another 12 years of running time for the reactors. But just a few months later, in the wake of the Fukushima disaster, Merkel repealed the extension. The government also set closing dates for each plant.
RWE, EON and Vattenfall have claimed they were arbitrarily deprived of the 2010 production rights since the risks in Germany didn’t change. They argued that the Japanese plant lacked basic security precautions that would have prevented the disaster. Because of the fixed closure dates, the suppliers have claimed they can’t even make full use of the production rights they won under the 2002 deal because of government miscalculations.
More from Bloomberg.com: Netanyahu Wants to Discuss Iran With Trump as Tensions Grow
While the constitutional court ruled that fundamental rights were violated, it didn’t determine any damages. The utilities will need to start additional proceedings in civil court for any compensation.
RWE and Vattenfall haven’t specified what compensation they may seek. The court also ruled that Vattenfall is in this case protected under civil rights granted by the German constitution. Vattenfall is owned by the Swedish state. Under German law, constitutional rights protect the public against government action and state entities can’t invoke them.
Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG, the fourth German nuclear operator, didn’t join as a party for that reason, as it is mostly government-owned.
Vattenfall is also seeking 5.7 billion euros of compensation, including interest, with the ICSID arbitration in Washington where a ruling is expected for mid-2017.
The utilities and the government in October reached an agreement on how to fund nuclear waste storage costs that still needs parliamentary approval. They could consider integrating the top court ruling’s result as part of that deal.
The cases are: BVerfG, 1 BvR 2821/11, 1 BvR 321/12, 1 BvR 1456/12.
Updates with shares in fifth paragraph.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Utilities Entitled to Damages for Germany’s Atomic Exit on bloomberg.com