CINCINNATI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
(PG) – Throughout history – and now more than ever before – strong women, through actions and words, and often against formidable odds, have established inroads in shifting cultural and societal norms. Yet strong, successful women still make people uncomfortable. As they break down gender barriers and push past the comfort zones of how women are expected to act, speak and look, they’re categorized as masculine and aggressive. Pantene believes in quite the opposite; that a woman’s power and beauty comes from her strength.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005656/en/ 
To continue to inspire women, Pantene is now partnering with one of the toughest women in the world, Ronda Rousey, mixed martial artist (MMA), judoka, actress and bestselling author. Together, Pantene and Rousey will prove that strong is what beautiful women are made of, because strong is always beautiful.
“I’m fully aware that I might not be the first person people think of to collaborate with a beauty brand,” said Rousey. “I’ve been called ‘Miss Man’ and ‘savage’ because of my physique, but to me, strength isn’t only about having muscles. It’s about having heart and finding inner confidence, so I’m honored that Pantene asked me to be part of their new campaign that encourages women to break gender barriers, break the glass ceiling and never settle.”
“We’re proud to announce Ronda Rousey as the newest member of the Pantene family,” says Jodi Allen, Vice President of Hair Care for North America at Procter & Gamble. “Ronda is the future of strong women everywhere – women rising above society’s expectations and proving once and for all that strong is always beautiful.”
The new campaign features Rousey articulating the phrase “Don’t Hate Me Because I’m Strong” – a play on words from Pantene’s iconic “Don’t Hate Me Because I’m Beautiful” campaign from the 1980s – to highlight the step-change that a woman’s power comes from her strength, not her beauty. In its newest chapter of the ‘Strong Is Beautiful’ story, Rousey will appear in TV, digital and print advertising, public relations and social media, and will join other Pantene Ambassadors who are fueling their hair with Pantene.
Pantene is continuing to empower women around the world not only at the forefront of its campaigns with its long line of strong women whom the Brand has partnered with throughout the years, including current Brand Ambassadors Selena Gomez and Jillian Hervey, but also behind-the-scenes with its female-dominated team, from a female director to a female editor, and led by a female brand team.
Share this video on your social channels using #StrongIsBeautiful and tagging @Pantene to help spread the message that strong is always beautiful, or visit the links below to watch Ronda in action.
For more information, visit www.Pantene.com, and to see upcoming exclusive content of Rousey, follow Pantene on Instagram at https://instagram.com/pantene and Twitter at http://twitter.com/Pantene, become a fan on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/PanteneNA and subscribe on YouTube www.youtube.com/Pantene.
ABOUT PANTENE PRO-V®:
Pantene Pro-V, the world’s #1 hair care brand, includes 18 collections to help provide women with their most beautiful, healthy hair. The current Pantene Pro-V offerings include: Breakage Defense, Beautiful Lengths, Classic Clean, Color Revival, Curl Perfection, Damage Detox, Daily Moisture Renewal, Full & Strong, Ice Shine, Nature Fusion, Repair & Protect, Smooth & Sleek, Pro-V Style Series, Sheer Volume, Truly Natural, Truly Relaxed, and Ultimate 10. Pantene Expert offerings include: AgeDefy, Intense Colorcare, Intense Hydration, Intense Repair and Intense Smooth. Powered by 70 years of experience, 200 scientists and partnerships with 11 leading independent hair doctors from around the world, Pantene’s Pro-V Formula works inside and out for beautiful hair rooted in true, lasting health.
ABOUT RONDA ROUSEY:
Ronda Rousey is the Ultimate Fighting Championship’s (UFC) longest-running bantamweight champion and the first U.S. woman to win an Olympic medal in Judo. Arguably the most dominant athlete in UFC history, Rousey is responsible for the inclusion of women in the Octagon. She has also taken Hollywood by storm with her signature force, landing roles in Entourage, Furious 7 and Expendables 3. Her New York Times bestselling book, My Fight/Your Fight charts her difficult path to glory. Marked by her signature charm, barbed wit, and undeniable power, Rousey’s account of the toughest fight of her life – in and outside the Octagon – reveals the painful loss of her father when she was eight years old, the intensity of her judo training, her battles with love, her meteoric rise to fame, the secret behind her long-undefeated UFC record and what it takes to become the toughest woman on Earth. The book is currently being developed as a feature film by Paramount Pictures. Rousey was the first woman to sign with the UFC, the world’s largest mixed martial arts organization. Designated Bantamweight Champion, she successfully defended her belt in the inaugural UFC women’s bout in February 2012, and seven more times through August 2015. Rousey will return to the Octagon on December 30th to face Amanda Nunes and fight to reclaim the women’s bantamweight title in UFC 207.
ABOUT PROCTER & GAMBLE:
P&G serves consumers around the world with one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality, leadership brands, including Always®, Ambi Pur®, Ariel®, Bounty®, Charmin®, Crest®, Dawn®, Downy®, Fairy®, Febreze®, Gain®, Gillette®, Head & Shoulders®, Lenor®, Olay®, Oral-B®, Pampers®, Pantene®, SK-II®, Tide®, Vicks®, and Whisper®. The P&G community includes operations in approximately 70 countries worldwide. Please visit http://www.pg.com for the latest news and information about P&G and its brands.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005656/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005656/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}