NASHVILLE, Tenn. & ANCHORAGE, Alaska--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Entrada today announced that it has been selected by Orthopedic Physicians Alaska (OPA) to deploy its EHR-integrated mobile platform to all caregivers across its enterprise of 60 orthopedic surgeons, as well as additional support staff. The deployment of Entrada, including its innovative speech solution Entrada Rhythm, is intended to enhance EHR efficiencies and drive productivity by giving physicians options when completing clinical documentation.
The deployment of Entrada will help OPA ensure EHR compliance among its team of physicians while also promoting the creation of clinically relevant and legally defensible medical records. Physicians have the flexibility of deploying both front-end and back-end speech documentation workflows using Entrada Rhythm, integrated directly within OPA’s existing EHR templates. In addition, its clinical team can use Entrada to streamline key tasks such as viewing and updating EHR patient data and capturing patient photos. OPA will also deploy Entrada Secure Messaging – available for both mobile and desktop - accelerating communication and coordination between members of the care team, both within and outside of the organization.
“We chose Entrada because of their proven track record in saving physician and staff time during the clinic day,” noted Tim Mullen, Director of Clinical Operations for Orthopedic Physicians Alaska. “When making clinical technology decisions, we emphasize a solution’s ability to increase productivity, rebalance the work/life equation, and ultimately improve our teams’ ability to provide excellent patient care. Entrada can help us drive each of these tangible outcomes while being tightly integrated with our EHR. In addition, we look to the efficiencies afforded through Entrada’s application to keep our costs down for our patients.”
Entrada delivers best-in-class mobile solutions that are reshaping the way healthcare services are delivered. For more information, visit Entrada’s website.
About Entrada
Entrada is a leading provider of integrated mobile solutions that improve healthcare efficiencies and outcomes. Entrada’s commitment is to protect physician and staff productivity for the next generation of patient care. For more information, please visit www.EntradaHealth.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005073/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}