CAMBRIDGE, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Unum Therapeutics, a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company developing a universal cellular immunotherapy to treat multiple cancers, today announced that the Company has been selected for two poster presentations on its Antibody-Coupled T-cell Receptor (ACTR) platform at the 58th ASH Annual Meeting, which is being held in San Diego, California, December 3-6, 2016.
In addition, Dr. Michelle Poon of the NUH in Singapore, will be presenting initial results of an ongoing Investigator Sponsored Trial using autologous T-cells with ACTR transiently expressed through mRNA electroporation in combination with rituximab in patients with relapsed/refractory CD20+ B-cell Non Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) (ATTCK20; ClinicalTrials.gov No. NCT02315118). Following the initial results of this ongoing trial, Unum recently announced the initiation of a clinical trial for patients with relapsed/refractory CD20+ B-NHL in which ACTR is durably expressed through viral delivery in autologous T-cells (ACTR087; ClinicalTrials.gov No. NCT02776813).
Presentation Details:
Presentation Title: Targeting CD20+ Relapsed Refractory B-Cell Lymphoma with ACTR087, Antibody-Coupled T-Cell Receptor (ACTR) Engineered Autologous T-Cells, in Combination with RituximabPresenter: Heather A. Huet, Senior Director of Drug Discovery, Unum TherapeuticsPresentation Date: Sunday, December 4, 2016Presentation Time: 6:00 p.m.‐8:00 p.m.Room: Hall GH (San Diego Convention Center)Session: 801. Gene Therapy and Transfer: Poster IIAbstract Number: 3512
Presentation Title: ACTR Platform as an Adaptable, Universal T-Cell Therapy That Can Target Multiple Tumor Antigens to Overcome Antigen EscapePresenter: Greg Motz, Senior Scientist, Unum TherapeuticsPresentation Date: Sunday, December 4, 2016Presentation Time: 6:00 p.m.‐8:00 p.m.Room: Hall GH (San Diego Convention Center)Session: 703. Adoptive Immunotherapy: Poster IIAbstract Number: 3362
Presentation Title: A First-in-Human Study of Autologous T Lymphocytes with Antibody-Dependent Cell Cytotoxicity (ADCC) in Patients with B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL)Presenter: Michelle Poon, MD Senior Consultant, Department of Hematology-Oncology,National University Cancer Institute, Singapore (NCIS)Presentation Date: Sunday, December 4, 2016Presentation Time: 6:00 p.m.‐8:00 p.m.Room: Hall GH (San Diego Convention Center)Session: 626. Aggressive Lymphoma (Diffuse Large B-Cell and Other Aggressive B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas)—Results from Prospective Clinical Trials: Poster IIAbstract Number: 3031
The posters will be posted on Unum’s website following the presentations.
About Antibody-Coupled T-Cell Receptor (ACTR) Technology and ACTR087Unum’s proprietary ACTR is a chimeric protein that combines components from receptors normally found on two different human immune cell types – natural killer (NK) cells and T-cells – to create a novel cancer cell killing activity. T-cells bearing the ACTR receptor protein can be directed to attack a tumor by combining with a monoclonal antibody that binds antigens on the cancer cell surface.
In contrast to other T-cell therapy approaches for cancer that are limited to a single cancer cell surface target and, therefore, treat a narrow set of tumors, Unum’s approach is not restricted by a specific tumor cell antigen and, thus, may have applications for treating many different types of cancers when combined with the right antibody.
Unum is developing ACTR in combination with a range of tumor-targeting antibodies for use in both hematologic and solid tumor indications. ACTR087, Unum’s most advanced product candidate, combines Unum’s proprietary ACTR, with rituximab, an anti-CD20 antibody. The ACTR087 study will be the first clinical trial using a viral vector to permanently insert the ACTR gene into the genome of patient T-cells.
About Unum TherapeuticsUnum Therapeutics uses its proprietary Antibody-Coupled T-cell Receptor (ACTR) technology in combination with tumor-targeting antibodies, which is designed to activate the body’s own immune system to fight cancer. Unum is actively building a pipeline of ACTR programs in which proprietary, tumor-targeting antibodies are armed to improve their therapeutic potential. The Company is headquartered in Cambridge, MA. For more information, visit www.unumrx.com/.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005357/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}