WEYBRIDGE, United Kingdom & MELVILLE, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Verint® Systems Inc. (VRNT) today celebrated its customers across the UK region and announced six organisations that have been awarded for excellence in customer and employee engagement, workforce optimisation and more. The awards were presented during last week’s Verint Engage™ UK Customer Conference at The Savoy in London.
At this year’s conference, the following organisations were recognised for exemplary results achieved using Verint Customer Engagement Optimisation™ solutions. Categories include excellence in customer engagement, digital engagement, employee engagement, enriching interactions, improving processes and optimising the workforce.
The Engage 2016 UK Conference welcomed hundreds of attendees from Verint customer companies. It featured workshops and customer-led sessions that explored best practices for optimising customer engagement using customer analytics, engagement management and workforce optimisation solutions from Verint.
Celebrated news broadcaster Natasha Kaplinsky opened the event and chaired interviews with award winners. Keynote presentations were delivered by author and professor Jamie Anderson, as well as leading analysts Daniel Mayo and Rik Turner from Ovum, and Andrew Peach from Forrester. The conference also included the Verint Customer Experience Zone and Product Innovation Zone, where users could test-drive new solutions, engage with Verint experts and provide input on product ideas.
On receiving the customer engagement award, Sarah Keogh, Business Architect, IT Solutions at Vhi Healthcare, says, “It’s great to be acknowledged for all the hard work our team has put into delivering an excellent customer experience. We focus on truly engaging with our customers and understanding their relationships with us, so we can serve them better. This approach has yielded some fantastic results, and we are delighted to be recognised by Verint as an industry leader in customer engagement.”
Of its win, Phil Coole, Claims Planning Manager at LV=, notes, “Our employee engagement programme has helped us achieve excellent results, not just improving employee performance and job satisfaction, but also positive customer outcomes. We’re very pleased to have taken part in this year’s Verint Engage event and to have been recognised as an industry leader is this incredibly important category.”
For its digital engagement award, Annie Hughes, Director of Service Development at Prudential, says, “This is a fantastic accolade and one that we are enormously proud to receive. MyPru, our online customer portal, is at the heart of our customer engagement and business growth strategies, providing our customers with the access to our services that they demand in today’s digital environment. The implementation of MyPru was achieved by a team, made up of a number of suppliers, who worked harmoniously to enable us to make this important step change in the way in which we interact with our customers.”
Regarding its optimising the workforce category win, Nicola Sumner, Customer Operations Director at BGL Group, adds, “BGL are delighted to have won this award in recognition of the hard work dedicated by team members across the contact centre in the implementation of workforce optimisation, as well as the benefits it has delivered for the Group.”
“We are firm believers in putting the customer at the centre of business and the impact it can have on the delivery of positive business outcomes. These awards are just another way we acknowledge our customers and recognise their outstanding accomplishments in the past year,” comments Nick Nonini, managing director EMEA at Verint. “Across a very broad range of industries, our customers are setting new standards for customer engagement, employee engagement and workforce optimisation, and it is incredibly satisfying being part of this journey with them.”
About Verint Systems Inc.
Verint® (VRNT) is a global leader in Actionable Intelligence® solutions with a focus on customer engagement optimisation, security intelligence, and fraud, risk and compliance. Today, more than 10,000 organisations in approximately 180 countries—including over 80 percent of the Fortune 100—count on intelligence from Verint solutions to make more informed, effective and timely decisions. Learn more about how we’re creating A Smarter World with Actionable Intelligence® at www.verint.com.
This press release contains “forward-looking statements,” including statements regarding expectations, predictions, views, opportunities, plans, strategies, beliefs, and statements of similar effect relating to Verint Systems Inc. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and they are based on management’s expectations that involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. For a detailed discussion of these risk factors, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 2016, and other filings we make with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release are made as of the date of this press release and, except as required by law, Verint assumes no obligation to update or revise them or to provide reasons why actual results may differ.
VERINT, ACTIONABLE INTELLIGENCE, MAKE BIG DATA ACTIONABLE, CUSTOMER-INSPIRED EXCELLENCE, INTELLIGENCE IN ACTION, IMPACT 360, WITNESS, VERINT VERIFIED, KANA, LAGAN, VOVICI, GMT, VICTRIO, AUDIOLOG, CONTACT SOLUTIONS, OPINIONLAB, CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT SOLUTIONS, ENTERPRISE INTELLIGENCE SOLUTIONS, SECURITY INTELLIGENCE SOLUTIONS, VOICE OF THE CUSTOMER ANALYTICS, NEXTIVA, EDGEVR, RELIANT, VANTAGE, STAR-GATE, ENGAGE, CYBERVISION, FOCALINFO, SUNTECH, and VIGIA are trademarks or registered trademarks of Verint Systems Inc. or its subsidiaries. Other trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005425/en/
 .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}