CLEVELAND--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Carvana, a better way to buy a car, announced today that it will be continuing its rapid expansion within the state of Ohio and across the United States with the launch of its Cleveland market. Cleveland marks Carvana’s 12th new market of 2016 and 21st overall. This market follows a series of launches in Ohio with Columbus, Cincinnati, and now Cleveland – its third in the state. Carvana can now offer as-soon-as next-day delivery to more than 140 million consumers nationwide, including approximately 7.9 million consumers residing in the Cleveland metro area.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005103/en/ 
Recognized as the 3rd most entrepreneurial company according to Entrepreneur magazine's Entrepreneur 360™ List, Carvana delivers a seamless online car buying experience, putting customers in control of the process. The company’s investment in advanced, proprietary technology allows for customers to search for, buy, finance and trade-in a car completely online, all by accessing Carvana.com on a mobile phone or desktop computer. The full purchase process can be completed in less than 15 minutes.
In addition, by answering 10 questions, customers can immediately obtain their financing options, allowing them to know precise payment terms for all 7,000+ vehicles in the company’s online inventory. Central to the company’s customer-first approach, all Carvana vehicles feature a 100-day/4,189-mile bumper-to-bumper warranty, as well as a 7-Day Return Policy, where customers can return their vehicle for any reason and receive a full refund. In 2016, Carvana car buyers saved an average of $1,461 per purchase versus the Kelley Blue Book suggested retail value.
“We’ve expanded our free, as-soon-as next-day delivery services to a dozen new markets this past year, and Cleveland marks our northernmost city we’ve entered thus far,” said Ernie Garcia, founder and CEO of Carvana. “We think there is a lot of demand for the Carvana car-buying experience throughout the Great Lakes region, and there is a high concentration of early tech adopters in Cleveland. With those factors considered, we’re really excited to bring a better and more enjoyable way to buy a car to the area.”
To date, Carvana has delivered cars to customers in 46 states, showing the high demand for the Carvana car buying experience. Additional facilities enable Carvana to offer faster and more affordable delivery options, including free, as-soon-as next-day delivery to local residents in 21 markets: Atlanta, Austin, Birmingham, Charlotte, Cincinnati, Columbus, Dallas, Houston, Indianapolis, Jacksonville, Memphis, Miami, Nashville, Orlando, Pittsburgh, Raleigh, Richmond, San Antonio, Tampa, Washington D.C., and now Cleveland.
As a thanks to Cleveland’s early adopters who purchased a vehicle from Carvana prior to the company’s expansion into the market, Carvana is offering a full refund of any delivery fee paid.
About Carvana
Founded in 2013 and based in Phoenix, Ariz., Carvana’s mission is to give customers a better car-buying experience by removing the dealership infrastructure and replacing it with technology and exceptional customer service. By leveraging e-commerce technology, Carvana has transformed car buying, creating a start-to-finish online shopping platform that has allowed customers to complete their purchase in less than 15 minutes, and in 2016 saved customers an average of $1,461 per purchase versus Kelley Blue Book’s suggested retail price.
Additionally, Carvana launched the world’s first-ever automated, coin-operated Car Vending Machine in Nashville, Tenn. Carvana offers consumers an intuitive and convenient online automotive retail platform, with a fully transactional website that enables consumers to quickly and easily buy a car online, including finding their preferred vehicle, qualifying for financing, completing the purchase and loan with signed contracts, and receiving delivery or pickup of the vehicle as soon as the next day. Carvana cars are guaranteed to be accident-free, undergo a rigorous 150-point inspection and feature a 100-day/4,189-mile bumper-to-bumper warranty, as well as a 7-Day Test Own period during which customers can return their car for any reason for a full refund. Carvana continues to revolutionize the car-buying process through technology, transparency and great customer service, while eliminating the pressure, hassles and hidden fees that come with buying from a dealership.
For further information on Carvana please visit www.carvana.com, or connect with us on Facebook, Instagram or Twitter.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005103/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005103/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}