HANNOVER, Germany--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
An economic powerhouse in the centre of Europe, a perfectly networked location and a fascinating variety of recreational amenities – in Hannover and Lower Saxony all these things go hand in hand with excellent but affordable housing and beautiful natural scenery that is closer to the city than anywhere else in Germany.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005637/en/ 
Economic power and quality of life come together
Hannover has plenty to offer: the highest quality of life and an excellent environment for daily work and business growth. Renowned universities, international trade fairs and strong high-tech industries make Hannover one of the state-of-the-art locations in Germany. More than 1 million people live here. Within a radius of 500 km, there are no less than 130 million people, the four biggest European cargo ports, five capital cities and all of Germany's major industrial centres.
Trade fair and convention capital
The Hannover Fairgrounds is the biggest exhibition centre in the world. As the venue for CeBIT and HANNOVER MESSE, it becomes a showcase for technological innovation every year.
Successful global players and highly specialised enterprises
Big brands that are known throughout the world are a symbol of the Hannover region's booming economy, with companies such as Abbott, Continental, Johnson Controls, Bahlsen, BREE, KIND Hörgeräte, Komatsu-Hanomag, Koncia Minolta, MTU Maintenance, Pelikan, Rossmann, Sennheiser electronic, Solvay Deutschland, TUI and WABCO all having their headquarters here. With 16,000 employees, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles is the city‘s biggest employer, and a total of around 32,000 people work in the manufacturing and supply sides of the automotive industry in Hannover. Many major insurance companies, such as Concordia, VGH and VHV have a key presence in the city – not to mention the Talanx Group, whose Hannover Rück and HDI brands are headquartered in Hannover. And important financial services providers (Swiss Life, Nord / LB) also have head offices or branches in the city, as well as the Hannover Stock Exchange. Germany‘s media sector is represented by major players such as the publishing companies Madsack and Schlütersche Verlagsgesellschaft and television producer TVN. In addition to the two major German TV channels ARD and ZDF, various private radio and television companies also broadcast from Hannover.
Internet portal for qualified specialists: www.hannover.de/en/specialists
Nature and tranquility – but with the benefits of a big city
Hannover’s quality of life is evident at every turn: top-ranking cultural and sports events, an impressive number of museums, fantastic shopping in one of Germany’s largest pedestrian precincts as well as the famous Herrenhausen Gardens and the picturesque old town. Legendary events such as the Maschsee Lake Festival and the world’s largest Marksmen’s Funfair never fail to attract huge numbers of tourists and locals. The federal state of Lower Saxony is famous for its horses, endless cycle routes along rivers or in the high altitudes of the Harz Mountains. But also for Wellness friends and city tourists Lower Saxony offers many different highlights. Located in the northwest of Germany, it is the second large st federal state by land area. With more than 41 million overnight stays per year, it is the 5th most popular German state, and over 10% of its 13 million visitors come from abroad.
Welcome to Lower Saxony, welcome to Hannover Region!
More information about Hannover: www.hannover.de/en and www.visit-hannover.com/en.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005637/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005637/en/