LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today, SpendEdge announced the launch of their web-based procurement market intelligence platform specifically designed to help category managers with robust decision making. Outclassing your competition doesn’t just happen by accident and can’t be achieved without spending money efficiently. This is why businesses and organizations are increasing emphasis on achieving sourcing and procurement excellence, as procurement savings directly impact bottom-line profits and help increase shareholder value.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005285/en/ 
SpendEdge offers comprehensive coverage of category supply market insights, supplier landscape, procurement best practices, pricing models, benchmarking and risk assessment to help category managers make informed business decisions, providing them with information they actually want. Clients that subscribe to this service will receive access to category market intelligence reports on 100+ spend categories, covering all category specific insights at a global level, with quarterly report updates.
How Does SpendEdge Help Category Managers?
SpendEdge recognizes the requirement for in-depth category specific insights is increasing and have built a platform aimed at equipping category managers with quick information access. Each report provides a supplier positioning matrix, category risk analysis and a top five supplier profile, allowing you to evaluate where you stand amongst your peers.
In addition, each report provides procurement best practices, demand-supply shifts, cost saving opportunities, pricing insights and much more to help maximize procurement value, providing the necessary tools to gain an advantage on the competition. Clients also have the option to customize the report content as per their requirements.
The 24/7 accessible SpendEdge category market intelligence portal supports desktops, smartphones and other handheld devices, offering advanced search functionalities and interactive team collaboration features. Alerts on report updates and new reports as well as on-demand analyst support are also available through the portal.
SpendEdge is the latest research arm of Infiniti Research, a leading sourcing and procurement market intelligence company.
Please contact Mahesh@infinitiresearch.email for more information.
About SpendEdge
SpendEdge, a full-time sourcing and procurement market intelligence firm, is a division of Infiniti Research Limited. SpendEdge develops insights that help sourcing and procurement professionals get the right information in the right format, without any unnecessary frills. SpendEdge is a preferred market intelligence partner for leading Fortune 500 firms and other leading companies across industries, delivering actionable insights to help sourcing and procurement professionals get the right information in the right format for timely decision making.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005285/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005285/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}