WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today, Fortistar, a private company focused on investments in energy sources for transitioning to a zero-carbon economy, announced that it has retained Specialized Biogas Services (SBS) headed by William Held. Under Bill’s leadership, SBS will be assisting in the development, implementation and performance of a variety of services related to the landfill gas and renewable energy markets.
Held has more than 35 years of experience in the environmental and renewable energy markets, and services development; specifically, with landfills, landfill gas, biogas technologies, and all aspects of renewable energy project development and implementation.
SBS will assist Fortistar in leveraging their capabilities in landfill gas to energy plant operations and maintenance to develop services for clients in the solid waste market. These services include air and environmental reporting; permitting, data management and analysis; and overall project analysis, feasibility and management.
“William is well respected by municipalities and the energy industry, and is known for his ability to deliver innovative projects that create revenue and reduce carbon emissions. I look forward to working closely with SBS to create new services for the solid waste and lower carbon energy markets,” said Mark Comora, President, Fortistar. “At Fortistar, we believe strongly that sustainability,at no additional cost, is the key to a successful transition to a zero-carbon society.”
Held formed SBS in early 2016, focusing on the development of biogas and Renewable Natural Gas (RNG) projects from project development to fuel distribution. Prior to SBS, Held was a senior director of renewable energy at Republic Services.
For more than 30 years as a privately-owned firm, Fortistar has built, invested in and managed an unparalleled portfolio of successful co-generation and other transitional clean energy generation projects in the U.S. and Canada. Fortistar’s ability to forge strong relationships with partners and local communities has been a hallmark of company’s formula for success.
ABOUT FORTISTAR
Headquartered in White Plains, New York, Fortistar is an opportunity-oriented, private investment and energy management firm that is distinguished by its experienced people with a deep understanding of energy operations, financing and development. Fortistar owns and operates lower carbon energy generating assets that support the transition to zero carbon emissions.
For decades, the company has developed, invested in and managed an unparalleled portfolio of successful independent power projects and in the past several years expanded into lower carbon energy initiatives in the United States and Canada. These initiatives include investments in cogeneration facilities; compressed natural gas fueling stations; landfill power plants; biomass facilities and most recently industrial processes.
Fortistar attributes its success to taking a long-term perspective of energy projects as well as having strong relationships with partners and local communities.
Fortistar companies include TruStar Energy, Primary Energy Recycling, Fortistar Methane Group, Fortistar Biomass Group, Clock.In and Skyonic,
For more information, please visit www.fortistar.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006504/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}