NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Sunrise Medical, a leader in mobility products design and manufacturing, has automated its treasury function using Reval, a scalable, cloud platform for treasury and risk management. Through this implementation, the company is gaining a single source of global cash visibility into its international banking structure and is more easily managing its foreign exchange exposures, debt and compliance with international reporting standards.
“With our treasury activities now automated and in one intuitive system, we can rely less on spreadsheets and focus more of our time on the strategic direction of Sunrise Medical,” says David Sundry, Corporate Treasurer at Sunrise Medical.
Sunrise Medical is using Reval’s bank connectivity service partner, Fides Treasury Services, within the Reval system to manage over 100 bank accounts from 30 different bank locations, globally. The company is also using Reval to manage cash, investments, debt, FX and interest rate risk and reporting under international accounting standards.
“Sunrise Medical is a company that really looked down the road when considering a system for treasury and risk management,” says John Mitchell, Executive Vice President of Global Sales for Reval. “We are proud to be their partner of choice for continuous automation and innovation of their rapidly expanding organization, and we welcome them to Reval’s larger, global community of users.”
About Sunrise Medical
Sunrise Medical is a world leader in the development, design, manufacture and distribution of manual wheelchairs, power wheelchairs, motorized scooters and both standard and customized seating and positioning systems. Sunrise Medical is committed to improving people's lives by providing innovative, high-quality mobility products and services that exceed customer expectations. Sunrise Medical is headquartered in Malsch, Germany with North American headquarters in Fresno, California and provides products in over 130 countries.
About Reval
Reval is a global SaaS provider for Treasury and Risk Management, helping enterprises better manage cash, liquidity and financial risk, and account for and report on complex financial instruments and hedging activities. For more information, visit www.reval.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005916/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}