The U.S. trade deficit widened to a four-month high in October as overseas sales weakened and American companies imported more equipment and consumer goods.
The gap grew to $42.6 billion from the prior month’s revised $36.2 billion, Commerce Department figures showed Tuesday. The 17.8 percent increase from September was the largest since March 2015. The Bloomberg survey median called for a $42 billion shortfall.
Stronger demand for imported merchandise indicates trade will add less to U.S. growth after net exports in the third quarter contributed the most since the end of 2013. What’s more, the latest rally in the dollar could squelch prospects for a pickup in exports as American-made goods become more expensive overseas.
More from Bloomberg.com: Putin Shows Off Russia's Embarrassing Aircraft Carrier
Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from shortfalls of $37.5 billion to $44 billion after an initially reported $36.4 billion September deficit.
Exports decreased 1.8 percent, the most since January, to $186.4 billion in October on slower sales of foods, consumer goods and industrial supplies, the Commerce Department data showed. At the same time, exports of services were a record.
Imports rose 1.3 percent to $229 billion, reflecting the largest inflow of merchandise since September of last year. The value of telecommunications gear, pharmaceuticals and mobile phones entering the U.S. in October increased.
More from Bloomberg.com: Trump’s ‘Retribution’ Tax Stirs Questions, GOP Resistance
After eliminating the influence of prices, which renders the numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade deficit widened to $60.3 billion, the highest in four months, from $54.2 billion in the prior month.
Trade contributed 0.87 percentage point to U.S. economic growth in the third quarter, the most since the final three months of 2013. A jump in soybean shipments to overseas customers that boosted exports in the third quarter is in the process of reversing. Trade and inventories are two of the most volatile components in GDP calculations.
More from Bloomberg.com: China Is Transforming Southeast Asia Faster Than Ever
The report also showed the trade gap with China, the world’s second-biggest economy, narrowed to $31.1 billion from $32.5 billion as U.S. exports to the nation were the strongest since December 2013.
Trade deficits with European Union nations, Japan and Mexico increased in October from a month earlier.
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Trade Deficit in U.S. Widened to a Four-Month High in October on bloomberg.com