DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Industrial Robotics Market - Global Forecast to 2021" report to their offering.
The demand for industrial robotics is anticipated to grow exponentially during the forecasting period driven by advantages such as cost reduction, improved quality, increased production, and improved workplace health and safety. The global industrial robotics market is expected to grow at a CAGR of over 8% between 2016 and 2021. The adoption of automation to ensure quality production and meet market demand, and the growing demand from small- and medium-scale enterprises in developing countries is fueling the growth of industrial robotics market globally.
On the basis of segment, the automotive industry accounted for highest share of the industrial robotics market. The market for industrial robotics in the electrical and electronics industry is expected to grow at double digit CAGR between 2016 and 2021 owing to the introduction of new electronic products into the market, the miniaturization of electrical and electronics equipment, and complexity in manufacturing processes. The metal industry is the third largest market for industrial robotics.
In terms of region, the five major markets including China, South Korea, Japan, United States, and Germany accounts for around 75% of the total robotics sales volume in 2015. Asia/Australia is the world's largest market for industrial robots, driven by growing demand for industrial robots from small- and medium-scale enterprises in China, Japan, South Korea, and India. Europe is the second leading region for industrial robotics market. Americas is the third largest market for industrial robots.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Executive Summary
2. Global Industrial Robotics Market and Volume Analysis (2009 - 2021)
3. Global Industrial Robotics Market Share and Forecast
4. Global Industrial Robotics Market and Volume Forecast - By Segment (2009 - 2021)
5. Global Industrial Robotics Volume and Forecast - By Region and Country Wise Distribution (2010 - 2021)
6. Key Player Analysis (2010 - 2021)
7. Global Industrial Robotics Market - Growth Drivers
8. Global Industrial Robotics Market - Challenges
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/cwrvlq/industrial

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005687/en/