PLANO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AcceptanceNow, a nationwide pioneer in the operation of rent-to-own kiosks within third-party retail outlets, recently announced it is the exclusive, preferred, staffed, no-credit-needed vendor partner with Furniture Marketing Group (FMG), the largest volume furniture buying cooperative in the U.S.
The deal puts AcceptanceNow in front of FMG’s 114 retail members as a preferred vendor that could eventually result in manned kiosks in hundreds of additional retail locations nationwide.
“FMG has a great reputation within the furniture industry, and we are excited to be partnering with them,” said Steve McKinley, AcceptanceNow vice president of sales and client relations. “We believe this partnership will drive additional revenue for these retailers through our added value program. Our proven staffed model is adding incremental revenue for retailers that would otherwise be lost. We are looking forward to many years of providing growth for the retail members of FMG.”
FMG partners with over 70 major furniture suppliers and service companies and targets medium to large, non-competing, independent retailers throughout the country who are interested in sharing ideas and making greater profits. With emphasis on collective buying, networking and education, FMG has become the premier buying group in the furniture industry. FMG members save thousands of dollars by accessing the group’s special discounts, rebates, and networking opportunities. FMG’s members own over 900 storefronts and are approaching $4.0 billion in retail sales.
“After identifying a member need and responding to member recommendations, FMG welcomes AcceptanceNow as an FMG partner,” said Mike Herschel, FMG executive director. “Their professionally manned in-store kiosks will increase revenue by servicing the credit-challenged customer who would normally walk out without a purchase.”
AcceptanceNow, a division of Rent-A-Center, Inc. (NASDAQ/NGS:RCII), a rent-to-own industry leader, operates 1868 rent-to-own kiosks in third-party retail stores across the country.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161130006405/en/