SUNNY ISLES BEACH, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Estates at Acqualina, the new highly anticipated $1.5 billion residential development, today reveals a rendering of Karl Lagerfeld’s lobby design for its ultra-luxury residential development in Miami’s Sunny Isles Beach, on the grounds of the Forbes Five Star and AAA Five Diamond Acqualina Resort & Spa on the Beach. The rendering is for the lobby of the South Tower, also known as 777 Via Acqualina, scheduled to be completed in 2020. A second North Tower, with a different lobby also designed by Karl Lagerfeld, is planned to be completed as well. The Estates at Acqualina is the first condominium project in the United States to involve the iconic designer.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006364/en/ 
“The lobbies of The Estates at Acqualina will ‘set the stage’ for the most prestigious and fashionable address in America,” said Jules Trump, developer of The Estates at Acqualina. “You will find precious and rare materials, delicate craftsmanship, unerringly and sophisticated style. You’ll also find unexpected and whimsical details that bring a frisson of excitement and delight. This is one of Mr. Lagerfeld’s supreme talents, knowing how to create in a way that is both timeless and of-the-moment all at once.”
Karl Lagerfeld’s vision for both lobbies blend both classical architecture and contemporary art. For the South Tower, photographic images of Roman fountains and arches – taken by Karl Lagerfeld himself – will be etched into larger-than-life wall panels, ceiling screens and skylights. These images, along with a spectacular working fountain at the center of the lobby, reverberate the expansive oceanfront views that surround The Estates. They also evoke a traditional Roman piazza, which, like the lobby, also functioned as a communal gathering place for residents.
A color palette of cerulean blue, white, silver, and gray, with pale pink hues is a nod to the Miami locale of The Estates. The floors will be hammered metal inlaid with one-of-a-kind rugs, fashioned from mosaic tile as a unique twist.
“Lobbies serve two purposes – they are the first impression of a building and a common living room for socializing,” said Karl Lagerfeld.
Construction for The Estates at Acqualina will take place in two phases beginning in late 2017. Phase I will include the South Tower, featuring 152 units, and Villa Acqualina, a 45,000-square-foot residents-only amenity complex. Villa Acqualina will offer guests luxurious and unprecedented amenities including a Circus Maximus, bowling alley, a spa and fitness center, a speakeasy and a world-class restaurant with unobstructed views of the Atlantic Ocean. The North Tower, also known as 888 Via Acqualina, will be constructed in Phase II and offer 92 units. In total, The Estates at Acqualina will feature 244 units.
When complete, each estate in the sky will be delivered furniture ready, and equipped with the finest appliances, imported stone countertops, smart-home technology and soaring ceilings. Most master suites will boast his and her bathroom suites with imported onyx countertops and walls and marble floors, a steam mist shower, a free-standing tub, an ocean-view shower and elaborate his and her dressing rooms. The Estates’ 5.6 acres of grounds and gardens will boast lush landscaped gardens, multiple infinity pools, a FlowRider® for surfers, a basketball court, a bocce court, a dog park, soccer field, a beachfront restaurant and 502 feet of Atlantic oceanfront with Five Star beach and pool services. 24-hour valet, 24-hour security services, a full service resident concierge and a house Rolls-Royce will also be available.
Those who purchase at The Estates will have access to the neighboring Forbes Five Star and AAA Five Diamond Acqualina Resort & Spa, TripAdvisor’s Top-Rated Beachfront Hotel in The Continental United States and Andrew Harper’s #1 Beach, Spa and Family Resort in the World. Residents will be able to take advantage of luxurious, personalized services from the hotel including daily housekeeping, in-room dining, children’s programming, nanny and child care services, pet care, dry cleaning and laundry services, limousine service, ESPA Spa access and gourmet dining at two restaurants, Il Mulino NY and AQ by Acqualina.
Residences at The Estates at Acqualina are priced from $3.8 – 9.5 million to $29 million for penthouses. Sales Gallery Address: 17895 Collins Avenue, Sunny Isles Beach, Florida; Telephone: 305.933.6666; Website: www.EstatesAtAcqualina.com
About the Developer:
GSF Acquisition, LLC, an affiliate of Eddie and Jules Trump of The Trump Group, is the developer and owner of The Estates at Acqualina. They have developed several successful top-end real estate properties, starting in 1985 with the creation of Williams Island in the exclusive Aventura, Florida. This complex of eight high-rise towers, a charming Mediterranean village, and suite of resort and club amenities, was one of the first developments of its kind in South Florida. Their development portfolio includes the Acqualina Resort & Spa in Sunny Isles Beach, The Mansions at Acqualina, and Luxuria Residences, a luxury condominium situated on the ocean in Boca Raton as well as extensive land holdings and developments in California. The Trump Groups' vision of The Estates at Acqualina was to create a unique lifestyle that will set it apart from the rest of the world. The Acqualina Brand is an iconic name which is transforming the South Florida skyline forever with a residential enclave whose beauty, luxury, and service place it in a class of its own on a worldwide scale.
The Estates at Acqualina
www.Facebook.com/EstatesatAcqualina
www.Twitter.com/estatesacq
www.Instagram.com/EstatesatAcqualina

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006364/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006364/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}