SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
K-Lab Co.,Ltd. (K-Lab), a fast growing manufacturer of semiconductor and thin film process systems under ultra high vacuum (UHV) environment, today announced it has developed mini systems for R&D purposes also known as MinutusTM. The R&D types of systems offer high performance, small sizes, and increase cost efficiency. The systems will be an excellent candidate for research-oriented universities, national/industrial laboratories, and start-ups.
The minisystems have a variety of options and also could be atomic layer deposition (ALD), reactive ion etching (RIE), electron beam (E-beam) evaporator, or magnetron sputtering system based on customers’ requests. Up to now, the cost of setting up R&D fab has been a major issue as a part of initial investment. However, the emergence of the compact systems enables researchers to save their time to develop their own prototypes under the budget effectively.
“Since the beginning of this year, we’ve been working hard to develop the compact systems with comparable performance. The first model was table-top system and now we have a 4-wheeled compact system which you can move anywhere in your lab,” said Johng Hong, Global Marketing Director of K-Lab and Technical Director of JS Nanotechnologies (JS Nano), a distributor of K-Lab’s systems in US, Canada, Mexico, and other American countries. JS Nano is also a developer of magnetic sensors using many types of quantum magnetoresistance (MR) effects such as giant/colossal/anisotropic/tunneling MR for the use of ultrahigh sensitive components for Internet of Things (IoT) sensors, mobile products, automotive and others for everyday uses such as smart cars, homes, and factories. In just two years, K-Lab has sold more than 30 UHV systems such as In-Line sputtering, magnetron sputtering, electron beam evaporator, reactive ion etching, special types of chemical vapor deposition systems, and many others all around the world including US, CHINA, KOREA, MALAYSIA. “We are excited to expand our market through newly developed compact systems more aggressively,” said Johng.
K-Lab’s patented sample loading system in sputtering system has paved a way to replace a very long sample transfer arm which increases the size of the installed area. With the continuous effort for researching and developing the UHV systems, K-Lab has released a compact system which could be RIE, E-beam evaporator, ALD, and sputtering, separately. From the size, it would reduce the size of clean room which could drastically decrease the maintenance cost by the size. For example, “class 10” clean room needs to keep 10 particles per cubic foot of air. When there are all compact systems, the size of the room could be reduced. In addition, the allied company, JS Nano’s successful development of prototypes about magnetic sensors guarantees the capability of the high performance systems from K-Lab’s technology to perform less than 10 Angstrom-sized thin film magnets (1 billion times smaller than the thickness of human hair). Thin film magnet is a high-end technology because it should be uniform and still “magnet (containing N- and S-poles)” in thin film state.
More information about the products can be found at www.jsnanotech.com/minisystems.
More information about the company can be found at www.k-lab.biz and www.jsnano.net.
About the companies
K-Lab Co., Ltd. was established in January 2015 to develop and commercialize many types of UHV thin film process systems for semiconducting and other types of electronic devices. Within a short period of time, K-Lab expands its business all around the world including USA, CHINA, KOREA, MALAYSIA. JS Nanotechnologies was founded in February 2016 spinning off from UC Berkeley and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. JS Nano’s quantum MR technology is a disruptive innovation in the field of IoT Sensors and others, enabling radiation hardness, faster switching times, lower power operation, lower manufactured device cost, and scalability to smaller lithographic dimensions (down to sub-10-nm). For more information, visit www.k-lab.biz and www.jsnano.net. K-Lab and JS Nanotechnologies are an allied partner to develop the UHV systems in developers’ and users’ points of view which could provide high quality systems to the potential customers.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206006474/en/