BETHESDA, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The AGA Research Foundation and The Dannon Company are pleased to recognize Gary D. Wu, MD, as the recipient of the 2017 AGA-Dannon Gut Microbiome in Health Award for his project titled: “Equol Production as a Model for the Impact of Diet on the Metabolome of the Gut Microbiota in Humans.”
“I am deeply honored to be the recipient of the 2017 AGA-Dannon Gut Microbiome in Health Award,” said Dr. Wu. “The resources provided by this award will allow us to investigate models for small molecule generation by the gut microbiota that influence the plasma metabolome of the host. These models will be particularly important to understand the manner by which diet serves as a substrate for the gut microbiota to produce metabolites that ultimately have an impact on human health."
“The impact of the gut microbiome on human health is far-reaching, from benefits to our digestive and immune system to playing a key role as the core of our mind body connection, which is why investments to better understand this unique ecosystem are so critical,” said Miguel Freitas, PhD, vice president of scientific affairs at The Dannon Company. “Dannon has a long legacy of supporting education and innovative research around probiotics, nutrition and health, and we’re pleased to build on that with this new microbiome-related award in partnership with AGA.”
With this award, Dr. Wu will receive a one-year, $20,000 research initiative grant to support his team’s continued exploration into the microbiome, which will have tremendous impact on the future of health care.
Dr. Wu is a long-time AGA leader, most recently serving as chair of the AGA Center for Gut Microbiome Research and Education. Dr. Wu is a Professor of Medicine, Ferdinand G. Weisbrod Chair in gastroenterology, and Co-Director of the PennCHOP Microbiome Program, at Perelman School of Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
About the AGA Institute
The American Gastroenterological Association is the trusted voice of the GI community. Founded in 1897, the AGA has grown to more than 16,000 members from around the globe who are involved in all aspects of the science, practice and advancement of gastroenterology. The AGA Institute administers the practice, research and educational programs of the organization. www.gastro.org.
Like AGA on Facebook.Join AGA on LinkedIn.Follow us on Twitter @AmerGastroAssn.Check out our videos on YouTube.
About the AGA Research Foundation
The AGA Research Foundation, formerly known as the Foundation for Digestive Health and Nutrition, is the cornerstone of AGA’s effort to expand digestive disease research funding. Since 1984, the AGA, through its foundations, has provided more than $47 million in research grants to more than 870 scientists. The AGA Research Foundation serves as a bridge to the future of research in gastroenterology and hepatology by providing critical funding to advance the careers of young researchers between the end of training and the establishment of credentials that earn National Institutes of Health grants. Learn more about the AGA Research Foundation or make a contribution at www.gastro.org/foundation.
About The Dannon Company
Headquartered in White Plains, New York, Dannon makes yogurt in Minster, OH, Fort Worth, TX, West Jordan, UT, and Portland, OR, and offers more than 200 different flavors, styles and sizes of cultured refrigerated and frozen dairy products to serve the diverse needs of its retail and foodservice customers. Dannon brings health through food to as many people as possible via its wide offering of delicious and nutritious fresh and frozen yogurts. Dannon is committed to encouraging Americans to eat one yogurt every day with a convenient, popular and nutrient dense food as a simple step that can help Americans achieve healthy dietary patterns. Dannon is a subsidiary of Danone, and Danone is the top-selling brand of yogurt worldwide, sold under the names Dannon and Danone. For more information, visit dannon.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005365/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}