AURORA, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Leapfrog Group announced today The Medical Center of Aurora has been named a Top Hospital for the first time. Widely acknowledged as one of the most prestigious distinctions a hospital can receive in the U.S., the recognition showcases The Medical Center of Aurora’s commitment to patient safety and quality.
“We are extremely proud to be the only 2016 Leapfrog Top General Hospital in the state of Colorado,” said Dan Miller, President and CEO at The Medical Center of Aurora. “This recognition is a testament to the dedication of our staff and physicians to provide the safest, highest quality care to all of our patients. They are a cut above the rest and very deserving of this recognition.”
The Medical Center of Aurora received a Top General Hospital distinction, and was one of 115 Top Hospitals recognized across the country. The list includes:
The selection of Top Hospitals is based on the results of the 2016 Leapfrog Hospital Survey. Performance across many areas of hospital care is considered in establishing the qualifications for the award, including infection rates, maternity care, and a hospital’s ability to prevent medication errors. The rigorous standards are defined in each year’s Top Hospital Methodology.
“Being acknowledged as a Top Hospital is an incredible feat achieved by less than three percent of hospitals nationwide,” said Leah Binder, president and CEO of The Leapfrog Group. “With this honor, The Medical Center of Aurora has established its commitment to safer and higher quality care. Providing this level of care to patients in Aurora requires motivation and drive from every team member. I congratulate the administration, staff and clinicians, whose efforts made this honor possible.”
To see the full list of institutions honored as 2016 Top Hospitals, please visit www.leapfroggroup.org/tophospitals.
About The Leapfrog Group
Founded in 2000 by large employers and other purchasers, The Leapfrog Group is a national nonprofit organization driving a movement for giant leaps forward in the quality and safety of American health care. The flagship Leapfrog Hospital Survey collects and transparently reports hospital performance, empowering purchasers to find the highest-value care and giving consumers the lifesaving information they need to make informed decisions. The Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade, Leapfrog’s other main initiative, assigns letter grades to hospitals based on their record of patient safety, helping consumers protect themselves and their families from errors, injuries, accidents, and infections.
About The Medical Center of Aurora
The Medical Center of Aurora, the first community hospital in the Denver Metro area to receive two-time Magnet designation for nursing excellence by the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC), is a 346-bed acute care hospital located in Aurora, Colorado. The Medical Center of Aurora is comprised of five campuses in Aurora and Centennial, Colo., including the Main Campus, located at Interstate 225 and Mississippi, the North Campus Behavioral Health and Wellness Center, Centennial Medical Plaza, Saddle Rock ER, and a medical office building at Green Valley Ranch. The Main Campus facility is a Level II Trauma Center with Primary Stroke Certification and Chest Pain Center accreditation, serving the eastern metro area and I-70 corridor. The Medical Center of Aurora received ‘A’ grades from The Leapfrog Group (Fall 2015, Fall 2016), was named a 2016 Leapfrog Top General Hospital, was recognized as the #4 hospital in the Denver metro area and the #4 hospital in Colorado by U.S. News & World Report (2014-2015), and was one of only nine hospitals in the country to receive the Lantern Award for Excellence in Emergency Room Care by the Emergency Nurses Association (2013).

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005511/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}