SAN ANTONIO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Tissue Regenix Wound Care, Inc., today announced the company has been awarded a group purchasing contract with Premier Inc., a leading healthcare improvement company, for Breakthrough Technology: Bone Tissue Synthetic Implantable Products. The agreement provides Premier members with access to DermaPure® human dermal allograft featuring dCELL® technology for the treatment of complex, acute and chronic wounds.
Antony Odell, CEO, Tissue Regenix Group plc commented: “Approval by Premier marks a significant step for DermaPure®. This confirms the unique characteristics of our patented dCELL® technology, the powerful clinical evidence we have collected and the remarkable outcomes it achieves in real world clinical situations.”
About Tissue Regenix
Tissue Regenix is a leading medical devices company in the field of regenerative medicine. The company's patented decellularisation ('dCELL®') technology removes DNA and other cellular material from animal and human tissue leaving an acellular tissue scaffold which is not rejected by the patient's body which can then be used to repair diseased or worn out body parts. The potential applications of this process are diverse and address many critical clinical needs such as vascular disease, heart valve replacement and knee repair.
Tissue Regenix was formed in 2006 when it was spun-out from the University of Leeds. The company commercialises academic research conducted by our partners around the World.
In November 2012 Tissue Regenix Group plc set up a subsidiary company in the United States - 'Tissue Regenix Wound Care Inc.', as part of its commercialisation strategy for its dCELL® technology platform.
About Premier Inc.
Premier Inc. (PINC) is a leading healthcare improvement company, uniting an alliance of approximately 3,600 U.S. hospitals and 120,000 other providers. With integrated data and analytics, collaboratives, supply chain solutions, and advisory and other services, Premier enables better care and outcomes at a lower cost. Premier, a Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award recipient, plays a critical role in the rapidly evolving healthcare industry, collaborating with members to co-develop long-term innovations that reinvent and improve the way care is delivered to patients nationwide. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Premier is passionate about transforming American healthcare. Please visit Premier’s news and investor sites on www.premierinc.com; as well as Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, Instagram, Foursquare and Premier’s blog for more information about the company.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005765/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}