The 30-year-old bull market in bonds looks to be ending with a bang.
The Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate Total Return Index lost 4 percent in November, the deepest slump since the gauge’s inception in 1990. Gathering U.S. economic momentum and Donald Trump’s election win -- and his promises of tax cuts and $1 trillion in infrastructure spending -- spurred investors to dump debt that was offering near-record-low yields and pile into stocks.
Calling an end to the three-decade bond bull market is no longer looking like a fool’s errand: the Federal Reserve is expected to start raising interest rates -- and do so more often than once a year, inflationary expectations are climbing and there are hints global central banks may be buying fewer sovereign securities going forward. Investors pulled $10.7 billion from U.S. bond funds in the two weeks after Trump’s victory, the biggest exodus since 2013’s “taper tantrum,” while American stock indexes jumped to record highs.
More from Bloomberg.com: OPEC Agrees to Cut Production in Drive to End Record Glut
“A lot of people are beginning to think that it is the end of the bull rally,” said Roger Bridges, the chief global strategist for interest rates and currencies in Sydney at Nikko Asset Management’s Australia unit, which oversees $14 billion. U.S. 10-year yields may rise to 2.7 percent in January, Bridges said. “The trend is your friend.”
The yield on 10-year U.S. notes jumped 56 basis points last month and was at 2.38 percent as of 12:11 p.m. in Tokyo on Thursday.
The rise in yields shows the limitations of the quantitative easing policies at the biggest central banks, Bridges said. Bonds will be especially vulnerable if the European Central Bank discusses reducing its debt-purchase program at its Dec. 8 meeting, he said.
More from Bloomberg.com: Goldman Says Trump's Presidency Will Benefit Stocks in Almost Every Sector
More from Bloomberg.com
Read Global Bonds Suffer Worst-Ever Meltdown as Bull Market Shows Age on bloomberg.com