NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Gaming sectors in the U.S. and Macau are on two separate growth trajectories heading into 2017, says Fitch Ratings. While Fitch has assigned stable rating and sector outlooks to both markets, Macau appears poised for a long recovery, while the U.S. market muddles along with flat revenues.
"Macau gaming, now firmly at the bottom of the cycle, has better long-term prospects given investments in new supply, improvements in mass market indicators and under-penetration of gaming throughout the rest of Asia," says Alex Bumazhny, Senior Director, U.S. Corporates. "In the U.S. the operating environment for regional casinos is benign at best, but a bit brighter on the Strip."
Fitch forecasts Macau's gaming revenues will finish 2016 down 4% before rebounding to mid-single-digit growth in 2017. That assumes the revenue improvements seen recently stick and then increase slightly when the MGM Cotai opens. Macau's recent new supply has seen mixed results, with no evidence of cannibalization at Las Vegas Sands' (LVS) existing properties.
The mass market segment appears to be responding well to new supply so far, with YoY gaming revenue for this segment increasing 4% in third-quarter 2016, a similar increase in hotel occupancy rates and longer hotel stays. Macau operators' commentary on their long beleaguered VIP segments started to turn positive this fall.
"With Macau on an upswing, China's economic slowdown appears to be benign to tourism throughout APAC, spurring casino developments in South Korea, Vietnam, and the Philippines," said Vicky Melbourne, Senior Director, Head of APAC Industrials. "This will lead to increased competition among APAC's regional markets as new integrated resorts come online."
In Singapore, gross gaming revenues will stall on weakness in its VIP segment. Poor returns make the prospects for additional casino licenses unlikely. Legalization of Japan's gaming market outside of its pachinko industry remains unknown as social concerns like problem gambling and organized crime present hurdles. However, if casino gaming becomes legal, Japan would likely have the largest gaming market in APAC outside of Macau.
By contrast, Fitch expects the U.S. market to have flat same-store gaming revenues and only modest new gaming supply.
"With several years of major capex in the rearview mirror, many U.S. gaming companies will look to optimize their capital structures. However robust growth just is not an available avenue for deleveraging," says Bumazhny.
The traditional casino model faces a turning tide, partly cannibalized by video lottery terminals, social gaming and instant-ticket lottery, and constrained by secular demographic headwinds but buoyed by growing employment and median wages. Additionally, Fitch is negative on slots and believes suppliers will bifurcate by leverage in 2017.
REITization of gaming assets will take a back seat in 2017 as IRS guidance makes spin-offs less likely and higher interest rates dampen financing.
The Las Vegas Strip remains a bright spot in U.S. gaming, supported by non-gaming amenities, which account for 65% of its gross revenues.
The full reports, "2017 Outlook: U.S. Gaming - Cyclical Gains to Offset Secular Pressures,", "2017 Outlook: Macau Gaming - Long Recovery Ahead," and "2017 Outlook: APAC Gaming - Operators Rush to Open Resorts; Macau's Long Term Prospects Brighten," are available at www.fitchratings.com or by clicking on the links.
Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'
Related Research
2017 Outlook: U.S. Gaming (Cyclical Gains to Offset Secular Pressures)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/890388
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005882/en/