DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Aerospace 3D Printing Market 2016-2020" report to their offering.
The global aerospace 3D printing market to grow at a CAGR of 55.85% during the period 2016-2020.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global aerospace 3D printing market for 2016-2020. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated in the overall market from the procurement of aircraft components and subsystems that are manufactured using 3D printing technology. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors operating in this market.
3D printing manufacturing refers to the process of synthesizing successive layers of materials with the support of computerized control technology to create an object or component. This process empowers manufacturers to produce small and micro-components of almost any shape or size. It also allows the manufacturers to reduce the overall weight of the components, thus substantially reducing the overall weight of an aircraft. This innovative printing method allows cost-efficient and just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing of parts. It also permits quick design and rapid changes of internal features of the components, which would not be possible with traditional manufacturing methods.
According to the report, one of the primary drivers in the market is miniaturization of jet engines. 3D printing not only contributes to the overall weight reduction of the aircraft but also enables miniaturization of aircraft components. This, in turn, results in fuel efficiency and a lower operating cost. When a gas turbine utilizes pulsed injection of fuel instead of a constant injection, the pressure in both the compressor and combustion chamber increases. This enables the design of smaller and lighter compressor systems, which saves a considerable amount of fuel. The pulsed injection, however, results in periodic blockage and detonations, and the resultant shock waves affect the other parts of the engine.
Key vendors
Other prominent vendors
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Market research methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Geographical segmentation
Part 07: Market drivers
Part 08: Impact of drivers
Part 09: Market challenges
Part 10: Impact of drivers and challenges
Part 11: Market trends
Part 12: Vendor landscape
Part 13: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/6b25rf/global_aerospace

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208005489/en/