WESTFORD, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The third paragraph of release dated December, 6, 2016, should read: “The nGeniusONE platform provides us with information to quickly pinpoint application and service performance problems. As a result, we improved service performance and reduced business risk by at least eighty percent,” said an IT specialist for a large financial services company.
The corrected release reads:
NETSCOUT CUSTOMER SURVEY CONFIRMS THE NGENIUSONE PLATFORM IS CONSIDERED “BEST-IN-CLASS” FOR ACCELERATING DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION
Survey Says Over 90% of Enterprises Achieve Real-time Business Insights and Improve Service Performance with Smarter Data and Superior Analytics
NETSCOUT SYSTEMS, INC., (NTCT), a leading provider of business assurance, a powerful combination of service assurance, cybersecurity, and business intelligence solutions, today announced the results from a NETSCOUT customer survey conducted in August 2016 and validated by independent third-party, TechValidate. The survey results revealed that customers consider NETSCOUT a leader in service performance management and that its solutions offer compelling value as a key component of digital transformation initiatives while providing a strong value proposition in areas of operational efficiencies.
The objective of the TechValidate survey was to listen to the “voice of the customer” and assess the value that NETSCOUT offers its customers in a range of business assurance use cases spanning digital transformation, Internet of Things (IoT), cloud, application performance management (APM)/development and operations (DevOps) and unified communications and collaboration (UC&C).
“The nGeniusONE platform provides us with information to quickly pinpoint application and service performance problems. As a result, we improved service performance and reduced business risk by at least eighty percent,” said an IT specialist for a large financial services company.
Large enterprises depend upon the timely and transparent service delivery of their mission-critical, end-user or customer-affecting services. NETSCOUT’s customers rely on nGeniusONE Service Assurance platform to provide real-time insights in order to protect the performance of their service delivery systems and applications, as well as deliver an effective system-level feedback loop for DevOps.
What NETSCOUT discovered is that many of its enterprise customers consider the value of its solutions and technologies as “priceless” and pivotal in supporting their digital transformation initiatives and technological innovations, such as the migrating of workloads to the cloud, implementing new IoT projects, accelerating the continuous software deployment pipeline for DevOps, overseeing their UC&C services, and managing increased complexity with virtualized data centers and SDN/NFVs.
“It is vital that organizations listen to their customers and are responsive to their needs. This TechValidate survey enabled us to assess how well the NETSCOUT solutions and Adaptive Service Intelligence™ (ASI) technology support the business and technology innovation initiatives of our enterprise customers,” said Anil Singhal, co-founder, president and chief executive officer, NETSCOUT. “NETSCOUT has been at the forefront of performance management for over 30 years. As the industry leader of service assurance and cybersecurity solutions, we are committed to providing our customers with cutting-edge technology and support that will allow them to continue to thrive by breaking down operational silos and focus on common goals like growth and innovation in the digital economy.”
Other specific findings from customers include a Fortune 500 transportation company achieving a return on its investment with improved customer experience, operational efficiencies, and support for new business models in less than three months. Additionally, 91 percent confirm that NETSCOUT nGeniusONE helps their organizations confidently navigate the turbulence of digital transformation changes in their IT infrastructure affecting cloud, UC&C, IoT and cybersecurity.
Furthermore, almost nine out of every 10 enterprises consider NETSCOUT business assurance solutions superior to known industry competitors. They confirmed ASI technology enables IT teams to design for large-scale traffic and support decision-making in highly agile and automated environments.
At NETSCOUT’s Voice of the Customer, you will find interesting and compelling customer facts, figures, and use cases completely derived from a TechValidate survey conducted with active users of NETSCOUT solutions including engineers, architects, IT managers and operations directors; business assurance and digital transformation.
About NETSCOUT SYSTEMS, INC.
NETSCOUT SYSTEMS, INC. (NTCT) is a leading provider of business assurance – a powerful combination of service assurance, cybersecurity, and business intelligence solutions – for today’s most demanding service provider, enterprise and government networks. NETSCOUT’s Adaptive Service Intelligence (ASI) technology continuously monitors the service delivery environment to identify performance issues and provides insight into network-based security threats, helping teams to quickly resolve issues that can cause business disruptions or impact user experience. NETSCOUT delivers unmatched service visibility and protects the digital infrastructure that supports our connected world. To learn more, visit www.netscout.com or follow @NETSCOUT on Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn.
Safe Harbor
Forward-looking statements in this release are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and other federal securities laws. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release, which are not strictly historical statements, constitute forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risk, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors. Such factors include slowdowns or downturns in economic conditions generally and in the market for advanced network and service assurance solutions specifically; the volatile foreign exchange environment; the company’s relationships with strategic partners and resellers; dependence upon broad-based acceptance of the company’s network performance management solutions; the presence of competitors with greater financial resources than ours and their strategic response to our products; our ability to retain key executives and employees; lower than expected demand for the company’s products and services; and the ability of NETSCOUT to successfully integrate the merged assets and the associated technology and achieve operational efficiencies. For a more detailed description of the risk factors associated with the company, please refer to the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and the company’s subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. NETSCOUT assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
©2016 NETSCOUT SYSTEMS, INC. All rights reserved. NETSCOUT, the NETSCOUT logo, Guardians of the Connected World, Adaptive Service Intelligence, InfiniStream, InfiniStreamNG, nGenius and nGeniusONE are registered trademarks or trademarks of NETSCOUT SYSTEMS, INC., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005392/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}