NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fitch Ratings has downgraded one class and affirmed 16 classes of Bear Stearns Commercial Mortgage Securities Trust (BSCMS) commercial mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2007-Top26. A detailed list of rating actions follows at the end of this press release.
KEY RATING DRIVERS
The downgrade of class A-M reflects higher modeled losses on both the specially serviced loans, as well as several of the largest loans remaining in the trust. Fitch has affirmed classes A-4 and A-1A based off high credit enhancement resulting from continued paydown and the classes' position within the credit stack. Additionally Fitch has affirmed distressed classes A-J through O, as loss expectations for these classes have not improved. Fitch modeled losses of 16.64% on the remaining pool. Expected losses on the original pool balance total 16.54%, which is inclusive of $81,369,502 (3.86% of the original balance) realized to date.
As of the November 2016 distribution date, the pool's aggregate principal balance has been reduced by 47% to $1.2 billion from $2.1 billion at issuance. Per servicer reporting, 13 loans are fully defeased (11.5% of the current balance). There are five loans (2%) with the special servicer. Interest shortfalls are currently affecting classes E, F, J, K, L, N, O, and P.
Stable Performance: The pool has exhibited relatively stable performance since last Fitch's last rating action with credit enhancement levels for the top classes, A-4 and A-1A, increasing as a result of 40 loans, totalling $202,840,641, repaying in full.
High Percentage of Fitch Loans of Concern: Fitch has designated 17 loans (26.9%) as Loans of Concern, including the five loans (2%) that are currently with the special servicer.
The largest Fitch Loan of Concern is the One AT&T Center loan (10.1%), which is secured by a 1.46 million square foot (sf) office building located in St. Louis, MO. The property is fully-occupied by AT&T (rated 'A-' by Fitch) through a triple-net (NNN) lease that expires in September 2017. Starting in 2013, several news sources reported that AT&T intends to fully vacate the property upon their lease expiration in September 2017 and has begun to move workers out of the building. According to the master servicer, AT&T has not provided the borrower with any indication of whether or not they will renew their lease. The loan has an Anticipated Repayment Date (ARD) of January 2017. As of year-end 2015, the servicer reported a net operating income (NOI) debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) for the property of 2.64x. Fitch will continue to monitor the loan for leasing updates, as well as any decline in performance.
The second largest Fitch Loan of Concern is the Viad Corporate Center loan (5%), which is secured by a 474.424 sf office building located in Phoenix, AZ. Originally developed as the headquarters for Viad Corp. in 1991, the property was converted to multi-tenant use in 1998. The largest tenants at the property include Dickinson Wright PLLC, accounting for 9.6% of the net rentable area (NRA) with a lease that expires in May 2026, Cavanagh Law Firm (8% of NRA, expiry April 2026), and Stitson Morrison Hecker LLP (7% of NRA, expiry September 2023). The loan was previously modified in May 2011, which included a $9 million write-down of principal. Per the December 2015 rent roll the property was 72% occupied, and the servicer-reported NOI DSCR was 0.97x as of YE 2015. As of the third quarter of 2016, REIS reported a vacancy rate of 25.5% for the Uptown submarket of Phoenix, AZ. The borrower has not yet provided the master servicer with an update with regard to repayment. The loan matured on Dec. 1, 2016.
Refinance Risk: There are 99 loans, comprising 70% of the pool's current balance, that are scheduled to mature in the first quarter of 2017.
Secondary and Tertiary Market Risk: Out of the top 15 loans, one (2.7%) is secured by an asset located in a secondary market and eight (30.2%) are located in tertiary markets. Both the secondary and tertiary markets exhibit high vacancy rates and minimal leasing velocity.
High Percentage of Interest-Only Loans: Full term interest-only loans account for 57.8% of the pool's current balance.
Office and Retail Concentrations: Of the remaining pool, 53.2% are office loans and 24.1% are retail loans.
RATING SENSITIVITIES
The Rating Outlooks on classes A-4 and A-1A remain Stable. The Rating Outlook for class A-M remains Negative as further downgrades are possible as the potential for outsized losses on the One AT&T Center loan and the Viad Corporate Center loan are possible, as their repayment is uncertain. Further downgrades to the distressed classes are likely as losses are realized. Upgrades are not likely.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17G-10
No third-party due diligence was provided or reviewed in relation to this rating action.
Fitch has downgraded the following rating:
--$210.6 million class A-M to 'Asf' from 'AAsf'; Outlook Negative.
Fitch has affirmed the following ratings:
--$582.2 million class A-4 at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$46.4 million class A-1A at 'AAAsf'; Outlook Stable;
--$160.5 million class A-J at 'CCCsf'; RE to 65% from 95%;
--$42.1 million class B at 'CCsf'; RE 0%;
--$18.4 million class C at 'CCsf'; RE 0%;
--$28.9 million class D at 'Csf'; RE 0%;
--$15.8 million class E at 'Csf'; RE 0%;
--$10.8 million class F at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 million class G at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 million class H at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 million class J at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 million class K at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 million class L at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 million class M at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 million class N at 'Dsf'; RE 0%;
--$0 million class O at 'Dsf'; RE 0%.
The class A-1, A-2, A-3, A-AB certificates have all paid in full. Fitch does not rate the class P certificates. Fitch previously withdrew the rating on the interest-only class X-1 and X-2 certificates.
Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com.
Applicable Criteria
Counterparty Criteria for Structured Finance and Covered Bonds (pub. 01 Sep 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/886006
Criteria for Rating Caps and Limitations in Global Structured Finance Transactions (pub. 16 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/882401
Global Structured Finance Rating Criteria (pub. 27 Jun 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/883130
North America and Asia-Pacific Multiborrower CMBS Surveillance Criteria (pub. 01 Dec 2016)
https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/891159
Additional Disclosures
Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form
https://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/press_releases/content/ridf_frame.cfm?pr_id=1016057
Solicitation Status
https://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=1016057
Endorsement Policy
https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory
ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006292/en/