CARY, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
iEntertainment Network Inc.’s (IENT) TapStar Interactive publishing division announces a new partnership with award-winning comic publisher Valiant Entertainment to produce a real-time match three multi-character battler game for PC and mobile based on Valiant’s rich superhero universe. The game will feature characters from several Valiant best-selling properties, including X-O Manowar, Bloodshot, Faith, Ninjak, Shadowman and more.
IENT/TapStar joins Valiant’s aggressive expansion into film, television, and gaming. Two of Valiant’s most prominent superhero franchises, Bloodshot and Harbinger, will soon lead the way as the first of five major, Valiant-based motion pictures from Sony Pictures.
“We’re thrilled to partner with Valiant,“ says IENT/TapStar President Steve Wall. “This supports our overarching plan to make great games based on amazing intellectual properties. Valiant is doing a great job developing their characters with lots of exciting news forthcoming. We are proud to be a part of their plans.”
iEntertainment Network, Inc., a public company (IENT), (www.IENT.com), acquired TapStar Interactive (www.Tapstargames.com) this year. The companies publish retail, online, and mobile games and have developed more than 500 successful games since 1982. Many of these games have sold more than 1,000,000 copies - including the world-famous Civilization, F-15 Strike Eagle, and more. Current released products include the classic Boulder Dash® game, WarBirds Online, and 6 other game series.
Valiant Entertainment is a leading character-based entertainment company that owns the largest independent superhero universe in comics. With more than 81 million issues sold and a library of over 2,000 characters, including Shadowman, Archer & Armstrong, and many more, Valiant consistently produces some of the most critically acclaimed comics in the industry and has received numerous industry awards and accolades, including a Diamond Gem Award for Comic Book Publisher of the Year.
Safe Harbor Notice
Certain statements contained herein are "forward-looking statements" (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). iEntertainment Network, Inc. (IENT) cautions that statements made in this news release constitute forward-looking statements and makes no guarantee of future performance. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections or implied results. IENT undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this news release.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005422/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}