LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
According to the latest market study released by Technavio, the global yeast market is expected to grow at a CAGR of approximately 9% during the forecast period.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005062/en/ 
This research report titled ‘Global Yeast Market 2016-2020’ provides an in-depth analysis of the market in terms of revenue and emerging market trends. This market research report also includes an up to date analysis and forecasts for various market segments and all geographical regions.
According to Manjunath Reddy, a lead analyst at Technavio for food research, “Increasing demand for processed food, and the growth of the brewery industry are bound to propel the growth of the global yeast market during the forecast period.”
Request a sample report: http://www.technavio.com/request-a-sample?report=54842
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
The report segments the global yeast market into the following six types of yeast, of which the top four segments are discussed in detail below.
Global baker's yeast market
The baker’s yeast market is expected to grow at a CAGR of close to 9% during the forecast period. Baker's yeast is a unicellular mold that is reproduced through a process known as budding. The growth of the global baker's yeast market is directly linked to the increasing consumption of processed food, especially bakery items.
The global bakery market is expected to grow at a CAGR of more than 7% during the forecast period. China is experiencing high growth in the baker's yeast market due to increase in the demand for bakery products in both retail and food services.
Global brewer's yeast market
The brewer’s yeast market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 9% during the forecast period. Brewer's yeast is made from a single-celled fungus, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and has a bitter taste. This market is mainly driven by the growing demand for alcoholic beverages, which use yeast during the fermentation process.
There are various health benefits associated with the consumption of brewer's which has been found to be effective in preventing antibiotic-associated diarrhea and elapsing colitis caused by Clostridium difficile. It is considered a probiotic as it contains nutrients, such as chromium, vitamin B, protein, selenium, potassium, iron, zinc, and magnesium.
Global feed yeast market
The feed yeast market is expected to grow at a CAGR of over 9% during the forecast period. Yeast is used in animal nutrition to enhance digestion and health of the animals. Feed yeast has many benefits, such as promoting growth, enhancing digestion, and improving the immune system.
“Feed yeast is a cost-effective nutritive supplement for animals with negligible harmful effects. However, the lack of awareness among the consumers is hampering the growth of the market,” says Manjunath.
Global industrial yeast market
The industrial yeast market is expected to grow at a CAGR of close to 8% during the forecast period. Yeast is widely used for various applications in industrial biotechnology. Various players in the market are coming together to develop improved industrial yeast strains. In June 2016, Meiogenix and Lesaffre entered an agreement to develop improved industrial yeast strains using the PhoeniX technology developed by Meiogenix. The technology controls the natural meiotic recombination process and efficiently generates non-genetically modified recombined yeast cells particularly for industrial strains.
The top vendors highlighted by Technavio’s food and beverage research analysts in this report are:
Browse Related Reports:
Do you need a report on a market in a specific geographical cluster or country but can’t find what you’re looking for? Don’t worry, Technavio also takes client requests. Please contact enquiry@technavio.com with your requirements and our analysts will be happy to create a customized report just for you.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. The company develops over 2000 pieces of research every year, covering more than 500 technologies across 80 countries. Technavio has about 300 analysts globally who specialize in customized consulting and business research assignments across the latest leading edge technologies.
Technavio analysts employ primary as well as secondary research techniques to ascertain the size and vendor landscape in a range of markets. Analysts obtain information using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches, besides using in-house market modeling tools and proprietary databases. They corroborate this data with the data obtained from various market participants and stakeholders across the value chain, including vendors, service providers, distributors, re-sellers, and end-users.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005062/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005062/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;}