FUKUSHIMA, Japan--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fukushima Prefecture:
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005620/en/ 
Fukushima-brewed Japanese sake sampling event held in Manhattan, New York
An event to experience genuine Japanese sake, entitled "Thank You from Fukushima Reception -Bonding through Japan’s Number One Sake-," was held at the Waldorf Astoria in Manhattan, New York on October 19, 2016.
In addition to serving as an opportunity for Fukushima's governor to offer gratitude to US citizens for their kindhearted support in the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster, the reception also provided a platform to give visitors a firsthand look at how the people of Fukushima continue to persevere against the challenge of reconstruction.
The over 200 guests that attended the event were served award-winning Fukushima sake, which has been recognized as Japan's best, receiving the Gold Prize in Annual Japan Sake Awards four years in a row. Accompanying the sake were a number of regional dishes from Fukushima, offering an immersive sense of the season-by-season flavors that typify the region. Among dishes provided to guests was ‘cube-cut steak’ and ‘chilled shabu’ prepared from Fukushima raised cattle, handmade soba from the Aizu region, and other fare.
The regional dishes were well received by guests as the venue reverberated with such comments as "delicious!" and "amazing!" Some guests reported that they were delighted to be enlightened about the region after having absolutely no knowledge of Fukushima before the event. Others admitted that they had equated "Fukushima" with "danger," but gained a new perspective after hearing the prefectural governor, which completely reversed their impressions. Such feedback demonstrated the success of the event at communicating not only current conditions, but also the appeal of Fukushima.
Business talks between US food and drink establishments, importers, and nine sake breweries based in Fukushima
A separate event, "Japan's Best Sake from Fukushima Business Exchange in New York City," was also held before the reception. Here, dynamic business talks ensued between nine sake breweries based in Fukushima, and food-and-drink establishments as well as importers based in the US.
Numerous positive comments were received from sake breweries that showcased products, including, "We plan to step up future exports after receiving such high praise for the sake's flavor," "This gave us the opportunity to communicate our passion for brewing, face-to-face," and "The junmai and umeshu in particular garnered excellent feedback." Such favorable comments raised optimism towards a further expansion of sake exports to the US from Fukushima prefecture.
Summary of the Events
Thank You from Fukushima ReceptionDate and time: Wednesday, October 19, 2016Venue: Waldorf Astoria, New YorkNumber of visitors: Approximately 200Key participants: New York City government officials, officials from the Embassy, Consulate, etc.; also attended by local food-related businesses, etc.Primary content:115 bottles (720 ml) of Fukushima-brewed Japanese sake from 9 sake breweries were served at the event. Regional dishes were also available, featuring 10 kg of Fukushima cattle rib roast served as cube-cut steak and chilled shabu. Handmade soba, ika-ninjin (carrot salad with dried squid) and other dishes were also served.
Japan’s Best Sake from Fukushima Business Exchange in New York CityDate and time: Wednesday, October 19, 2016Venue: Waldorf Astoria, New YorkNumber of visitors: Approximately 70Key participants: Several well-known local food and drink establishments participated, notably including Ambassador Wine & Spirit, Bohemian NY, Kuramoto US, and others.Business talks resulting in contracts: 6 (preliminary figure)Participating breweries (nine breweries):Daitengu Sake Brewery Co., Ltd. (Motomiya)Ninki Inc. (Nihonmatsu)Okunomatsu Sake Brewery Co., Ltd. (Nihonmatsu)Daishichi Sake Brewery Co., Ltd. (Nihonmatsu)Niida-Honke Co., Inc. (Koriyama)Yumegokoro Sake Brewery Co., Ltd. (Kitakata)Homare Sake Brewery Co., Ltd. (Kitakata)Suehiro Sake Brewery Co., Ltd. (Aizuwakamatsu)Kokken Brewery Co., Ltd. (Minamiaizu)

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005620/en/
MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005620/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}