BURLINGTON, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today, Nuance Communications, Inc. (NUAN) announced it has been named the leading vendor in two recent surveys conducted by the independent market research and opinion research company, Black Book™ Research. Nuance ranked #1 for Clinical Documentation Improvement (CDI) for the third consecutive year, and ranked #1 for End-to-End Healthcare Coding, CDI, Transcription and Speech Recognition Technology for the second consecutive year. Black Book interviews healthcare executives about their current technology and services partners and awards top-performing vendors based on indicators of client experience and customer satisfaction.
Nuance gained the highest scores on the majority of 18 key performance indicators measured, more than three times any other vendor in end-to-end clinical documentation solutions. These technologies are top of mind as healthcare professionals plan for 2017 and look to leverage CDI, coding, speech recognition and medical transcription to optimize electronic health records (EHRs). Black Book found 94% of those surveyed plan to increase their spending for these solutions by 10% or more next year.
Quality Documentation Needed for Value-Based CareHalf of acute care respondents in the 2016 Black Book survey were not confident that their EHRs effectively captured the patient data to meet developing clinical documentation needs for value-based care and big data initiatives. As a result, CDI has risen to the top of 2017 budget priorities as healthcare organizations shift from ICD-10 to strategies that will drive success under new quality-driven payment models.
“Healthcare organizations recognize that failing to address flaws in documentation processes or to capture the data they need in EHRs results in increased errors, financial losses and diminished patient care,” said Doug Brown, managing partner of Black Book. “As a top ranked vendor year after year, Nuance has proven that in the eyes of healthcare leaders it delivers innovations and outcomes in CDI and end-to-end clinical documentation that meet and exceed their expectations.”
“It’s a significant milestone for Nuance end-to-end clinical documentation solutions to be recognized for providing innovations that support our clients, helping clinicians spend 50% less time documenting care, and enabling them to spend more time with patients. Up to 98% of clinicians are satisfied with the intelligence Nuance provides and would recommend our solutions to their peers,” said Satish Maripuri, executive vice president and general manager of the Healthcare Division, Nuance. “Plus, our CDI clients are in the top 25% best performing on mortality ratings and our new clients realized an 8.5% average case mix index improvement in 2016, showing clinical and financial outcomes that matter.”
Nuance provides intelligent systems that support a more natural and insightful approach to clinical documentation, freeing clinicians to spend more time caring for patients. Nuance healthcare solutions capture, improve and communicate more than 300 million patient stories each year helping more than 500,000 clinicians in 10,000 global healthcare organizations to drive meaningful clinical and financial outcomes. Nuance’s award-winning clinical speech recognition, medical transcription, CDI, coding, quality and medical imaging solutions provide a more complete and accurate view of patient care.
To read the complete 2016 Black Book End-to-End Coding, CDI and Speech Recognition Technology report, visit this Black Book link on nuance.com.
About Nuance Communications, Inc.Nuance Communications, Inc. (NUAN) is a leading provider of voice and language solutions for businesses and consumers around the world. Its technologies, applications and services make the user experience more compelling by transforming the way people interact with devices and systems. Every day, millions of users and thousands of businesses experience Nuance’s proven applications. For more information, please visit www.nuance.com.
About Black BookBlack Book™, its founders, management and staff do not own or hold any financial interest in any of the vendors covered and encompassed in the surveys it conducts. Black Book reports the results of the collected satisfaction and client experience rankings in publication and to media prior to vendor notification of rating results and does not solicit vendor participation fees, review fees, inclusion or briefing charges, consultation requirements, and/or vendor collaboration as Black Book polls vendors’ clients.
Since 2000, Black Book™ has polled the vendor satisfaction across over thirty industries in the software/technology and managed services sectors around the globe. In 2009, Black Book began polling the client experience of now over 540,000 healthcare software and services users. Black Book expanded its survey prowess and reputation of independent, unbiased crowd-sourced surveying to IT and health records professionals, physician practice administrators, nurses, financial leaders, executives and hospital information technology managers. For methodology, auditing, resources, comprehensive research and Clinical Documentation Improvement, Coding and Medical Transcription outsourcing ranking data see www.blackbookmarketresearch.com.
Trademark reference: Nuance and the Nuance logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of Nuance Communications, Inc. or its affiliates in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks referenced herein are the property of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207005092/en/