FRISCO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
ION Solutions, a part of AmerisourceBergen and the largest physician service organization and GPO specializing in the support of community oncology, launched a service that enables oncology practices to optimize in-practice dispensing, generate additional revenue and enhance patient care. Members of ION Solutions’ Specialty Oncology Network (SON), the largest and longest-tenured pharmacy-support program for community oncologists, have access to new and innovative dashboards that provide insight into script capture, payer mix and long-term trends.
The data-backed solution allows oncology practices to evaluate work flow processes, determine their overall growth potential and identify opportunities to increase their prescription capture rate by physician and site. The dashboard also features a payer mapping chart, enabling oncology practices to track the percentage of specialty drugs for Medicare, commercial and other insurance types to easily manage contract adherence.
“As the number of oral oncology medications continues to increase and more community oncologists seek solutions to dispense within the practice, we strive to provide them with the tools they need to launch and maintain a successful program,” said Lisa Harrison, RPh, director of pharmacy services at ION Solutions. “With our collective resources, we’re able to help community oncologists not only generate additional revenue but also increase the convenience for their patients.”
The dashboard complements the existing services offered through the Specialty Oncology Network, which includes a team of clinical practice consultants and pharmacy technicians who help community oncologists plan, implement and then maintain in-office physician dispensing or pharmacy services. The team of experts also helps practices navigate the challenges associated with in-office dispensing, such as contract management, product inventory and staffing.
The pharmacy consulting team also provides SON members quarterly evaluations of the landscape, including current utilization and margin analyses and long-term industry trends.
“As a leader in the oral dispensing space, we aim to provide community oncologists with value from a clinical, operational and financial perspective,” Harrison said. “Our suite of solutions helps community oncologists make the most informed decisions for their practices and, ultimately, helps improve patient outcomes through better adherence and side effect management.”
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the largest global pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, helping both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers improve patient access to products and enhance patient care. With services ranging from drug distribution and niche premium logistics to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, AmerisourceBergen delivers innovative programs and solutions across the pharmaceutical supply channel in human and animal health. With over $140 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 19,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #12 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161201005785/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}