NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Pfizer Inc. invites investors and the general public to listen to a webcast of a discussion with Ian Read, Chairman and CEO, at the Guggenheim 4th Annual Boston Healthcare Conference on Tuesday, December 13, 2016 at 12:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time.
To listen to the webcast, visit our web site at www.pfizer.com and click on the “Guggenheim 4th Annual Boston Healthcare Conference” link in the For Investors section located on the lower right-hand corner of that page. Information on accessing and pre-registering for the webcast will be available at www.pfizer.com beginning today.
Visitors will be able to listen to an archived copy of the webcast at www.pfizer.com.
Disclosure Notice: The webcast may include forward-looking statements about, among other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, the benefits expected from our recent and pending acquisitions and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends that are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. A description of these risks and uncertainties can be found in Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 and in its subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including in the sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, as well as in its subsequent reports on Form 8-K, all of which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and available at www.sec.gov and www.pfizer.com.
The forward-looking statements in the webcast speak only as of the original date of the webcast. Pfizer assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in the webcast as the result of new information or future events or developments.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161206005076/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}