DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Wearable Electronics Market (2016-2022)" report to their offering.
Wearable technology gained prominence just about a decade ago, since then, the technology has had a sustained effect and the interest in this sector has steadily grown over the years. Wearable fitness trackers, smart watches, and bands have been the leading products holding the interest of the consumers. The technology has been such enticing that, mobile operators offering smart watches along with fitness trackers, or smart phones with smart watches as part of a bundled deal to woo customers.
Market leaders have worked on integrating the wearable technology into various products such as smart phones, and electronic products. Top players source their raw materials from suppliers, manufacture their own products, and integrate wearable electronics technology into the product range.
The report highlights the adoption of Wearable Electronics market, globally. Based on the Application, the Wearable Electronics Market is segmented into Consumer and Commercial Application markets. The Consumer Application market is further bifurcated into Lifestyle, Fitness and sports, Healthcare, Entertainment and Others segments. The Commercial Application market is further segmented into Defence and Enterprise & Industrial markets. Based on the Components, the market is segmented across PCBs (Printed Circuit Board), Memory, Battery, Sensor, Connectivity, Audio, Display, Camera and Others market. The market is also segmented as Wrist-Wear, Eye-Wear, Foot-Wear, Neck-Wear, Body-Wear and Others market. The geographies included in the report are North America, Europe, Asia Pacific and LAMEA.
Companies Mentioned:
Key Topics Covered:
1. Market Scope & Methodology
2. Market Overview
3. Global Wearable Electronics Market - By Application
4. Global Wearable Electronics Market - By Components
5. Global Wearable Electronics Market - By Products
6. Global Wearable Electronics Market - By Geography
7. Company Profiles
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/l9k9s8/global_wearable

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161207006290/en/