BETHEL, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Today, Duracell joined forces with Lucasfilm to transform Children’s Hospital Los Angeles (CHLA) into a galactic playground. After joining Star Wars characters for Jedi training, patients and their families were equipped with Hasbro lightsabers, powered by Duracell, to tap into the healing power of imagination. The action-packed day also featured bedside visits from fan-favorite characters including R2-D2 and Stormtroopers, as well as multiple screenings of all-new episodes of “Star Wars Rebels.”
This experience is part of Duracell’s 2016 holiday campaign created in support of the healing power of imagination. It features a 60-second Star Wars-themed spot, “How the Rebels Saved Christmas,” which debuted in October in conjunction with Lucasfilm.
“This holiday season Duracell is on a mission to power imagination for those who need it most,” said Ramon Velutini, Vice President of Marketing at Duracell. “After our Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals visits, we learned that kids are in need of batteries to power their toys which inspired us to make a donation to CMN Hospitals nationwide.
“Research shows imagination can create happiness, boost self-esteem, increase calmness and resilience, and help heal emotional and physical pain,” says Dr. Charlotte Reznick, internationally recognized child educational psychologist and author of The Los Angeles Times bestselling book, The Power of Your Child’s Imagination. “I’m delighted to see Duracell embrace the fact that letting kids be kids through imagination is healthy – mentally, emotionally and physically.”
To power long-lasting imagination for more patients, Duracell donated 1 million batteries to 146 Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals nationwide, including CHLA, just in time for the holidays.
“Duracell’s campaign is a great service to our mission of raising funds and awareness for our member hospitals which serve 10 million sick and injured children across the country,” said John Lauck, president and CEO, Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. “For thousands of young patients, the donation of batteries will power countless hours of imagination, which has been proven to ease stress and anxiety during the healing process.”
As a proud member of Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, CHLA is committed to improving its patients’ stays by offering fun and creative activities in addition to world-class treatment. “Our patients were thrilled Duracell hosted an epic Star Wars experience, reminding them to find the ‘force’ within themselves as they heal,” said Dawn Wilcox, Vice President Corporate Partnerships of CHLA.
To learn more about Duracell and how you can help support Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, please visit www.duracell.com.
About Duracell
Started in the 1920’s, the Duracell brand and company was recently acquired by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (NYSE-BRK.A, BRK.B) and has grown to be the leader in the single-use battery market in North America. The iconic Duracell brand is known the world over. Our products serve as the heart of devices that keep people connected, protect their families, entertain them, and simplify their increasingly mobile lifestyles. Our recharging technology allows consumers to live life without limits. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is a $210B holding company owning subsidiaries that engage in diverse business activities. Visit www.duracell.com for more information; follow us on Twitter.com/Duracell and like us on Facebook.com/Duracell.
About Children’s Hospital Los Angeles
Children's Hospital Los Angeles has been named the best children’s hospital in California and among the best in the nation for clinical excellence with its selection to the prestigious US News & World Report Honor Roll. Children’s Hospital is home to The Saban Research Institute, one of the largest and most productive pediatric research facilities in the United States. The hospital is also one of America's premier teaching hospitals through its affiliation since 1932 with the Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern California. For more information, visit www.CHLA.org. Follow us on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn, or visit our blog: www.WeAreChildrens.org.
About Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals
Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals® raises funds and awareness for 170 member hospitals that provide 32 million treatments each year to kids across the U.S. and Canada. Donations stay local to fund critical treatments and healthcare services, pediatric medical equipment and charitable care. Since 1983, Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals has raised more than $5 billion, most of it $1 at a time through the charity’s Miracle Balloon icon. Its various fundraising partners and programs support the nonprofit’s mission to save and improve the lives of as many children as possible. Find out why children’s hospitals need community support, identify your member hospital and learn how you can Put Your Money Where the Miracles Are, at CMNHospitals.org and facebook.com/CMNHospitals.
About Lucasfilm Ltd.
Lucasfilm Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company, is a global leader in film, television and digital entertainment production. In addition to its motion-picture and television production, the company’s activities include visual effects and audio post-production, cutting-edge digital animation, interactive entertainment software, and the management of the global merchandising activities for its entertainment properties including the legendary STAR WARS and INDIANA JONES franchises. Lucasfilm Ltd. is headquartered in northern California.
About “Star Wars: Rogue One”
From Lucasfilm comes the first of the Star Wars standalone films, “Rogue One: A Star Wars Story,” an all-new epic adventure. In a time of conflict, a group of unlikely heroes band together on a mission to steal the plans to the Death Star, the Empire’s ultimate weapon of destruction. This key event in the Star Wars timeline brings together ordinary people who choose to do extraordinary things, and in doing so, become part of something greater than themselves.
“Rogue One: A Star Wars Story” is directed by Gareth Edwards and stars Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Ben Mendelsohn, Donnie Yen, Mads Mikkelsen, Alan Tudyk, Riz Ahmed, with Jiang Wen and Forest Whitaker. Kathleen Kennedy, Allison Shearmur and Simon Emanuel are producing, with John Knoll and Jason McGatlin serving as executive producers. “Rogue One: A Star Wars Story” opens in U.S. theaters on December 16, 2016.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161208006316/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;}