DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The flourishing economy of the state of Texas often overshadows the fact that there remain those in need throughout the state. Marcus Hiles, a prominent developer and the CEO of Western Rim Property Services, is well aware of more than 1,200 homeless children living on the streets of inner city Dallas, and fights relentlessly to assist these youth plagued by poverty. Most recently, in an effort to protect school children from the approaching winter elements, Hiles donated over 300 coats to the Dallas/Fort Worth area children most in need.
While the many magnet schools located throughout Dallas’ affluential suburbs are regarded among the country’s best public high schools, touting world-class instructors and facilities, the inner city district portrays a starkly different image, and reflects what is becoming an epidemic throughout the nation’s urban communities: an overwhelming majority of children living in dire circumstances. The non-profit organizations that collect goods to feed, clothe, and equip these children for school, such as the church that will distribute Hiles’ coats to K-12 grade students, are essential to the growth of the community, and Marcus Hiles urges local businesses and residents to avidly support these causes. By providing spiritual, emotional and academic support, these programs help at-risk youth overcome hardships, placing them onto the right path for success.
Marcus Hiles is a renowned real estate investor and the Chairman & CEO of Western Rim Property Services with over two and a half decades of experience developing residential rental townhomes and apartments throughout Texas. The son of an inner city minister, Hiles has dedicated much of his adult life to alleviating hardships for economically disadvantaged women and children, donating over $2.5 million to public and private K-12 initiatives, childcare programs, university career services, and job placement programs.
About Western Rim Property Services:
Western Rim Property Services, Inc. develops, owns, and manages apartment homes in Dallas/Fort Worth, Austin, New Braunfels, San Antonio, and Houston, Texas. Known to offer a contemporary, high quality and luxurious lifestyle to its residents, the firm’s mission is simple: build the highest quality homes in the very best locations, maximizing views with signature amenities, in superior school districts. This assures a rapid lease-up and excellent customer acceptance.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005762/en/
 .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;}