DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "India Alternative Medicines & Herbal Products Market Outlook to 2021 - Herbal Medicines and Herbal Skin Care Products to Drive Market Growth" report to their offering.
The report focuses on Alternative medicines, which includes AYUSH medicines and herbal products. Herbal products category includes the detail study about herbal hair care market, herbal skin care market, herbal oral care, herbal Chyawanprash, herbal balm and herbal digestives. Additionally, the report also covers sub segmentation for each herbal products market in India.
The report covers recent trends and developments in India alternative and herbal products market. Market positioning of major players in the industry has been discussed with detailed company profiles. The report also includes SWOT analysis and Porters five forces model.
The future outlook and projections for India alternative medicines and herbal products has been covered in the publication.
The report also serves as a benchmark for every new player which is seeking to enter into alternative medicines and herbal products market and what should be the focus and USP for that new player.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Executive Summary
2. Appendix
3. India Alternative Medicine & Herbal Products Market
4. India Alternative Medicine Market
5. India Herbal Hair Care Market
6. India Herbal Skin care Market
7. India Herbal Oral Care Market
8. India Herbal Balm Market
9. India Digestive Market
10. India Chyawanprash Market
11. Growth Drivers and Restraints in India Alternative & Herbal Products Market
12. SWOT Analysis of India Alternative Medicine & Herbal Products Market
13. Porter's Five Forces Analysis of India Alternative Medicine & Herbal Products Market
14. Company Profile of Major Players in India Alternative Medicines Market
15. Government role in India Alternative Medicine & Herbal Products Market
16. India Alternative Medicine & Herbal Products Market Future Outlook and Projections, FY'2017-FY'2021
17. Macroeconomic Factors Affecting India Alternative Medicines & Herbal Products Market, 2010-2020
Companies Mentioned
- Baidyanath
- Dabur limited
- Emami limited
- Himalaya Drug Company
- Marico
- Patanjali
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/2p385c/india_alternative

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161209005503/en/